
Substitute House Bill No. 5444PublicAct No. 18-125AN  ACT  CONCERNING  REVISIONS  TO  THE  STUDENT  DATA PRIVACY ACT.Be  it  enacted  by  the  Senate  and  House  of  Representatives  in  General Assembly convened:Section   1.   (NEW)   (Effective from   passage)   The   Commission   for Educational Technology shall develop a uniform student data privacy terms-of-service  agreement  addendum  that  may  be  used  in  contracts entered  into  pursuant  to  section  10-234bb  of  the  general  statutes,  as amended by this act. The provisions of such addendum shall conform to  the  requirements  for  a  contract  described  in  said  section.  The commission  shall  make  such  addendum  available  on  its  Internet  web site,  or  in  any  online  registry  maintained  by  the  commission  for contractors  and  operators,  as  those  terms  are  defined  in  section  10-234aa   of   the   general   statutes,   and   local   and   regional   boards   of education.Sec.  2.  Section  10-234bb of  the  2018  supplement  to  the  general statutes  is  repealed  and  the  following  is  substituted  in  lieu  thereof(Effective July 1, 2018):(a)  On  and  after July  1,  2018,a  local or  regional  board  of education shall enter into a written contract with a contractor any time such local or  regional  board  of  education  shares  or  provides  access  to  student 
Substitute House Bill No. 5444PublicAct No. 18-1252of 13information,  student  records  orstudent-generated  content  with  such contractor. Each such contract shall include, but need not be limited to, the following:(1)A   statement   that   student   information,   student   records   and student-generated content are not the property of or under the control of a contractor;(2)A description of the means by which the local or regional board of  education  may  request  the  deletion  of anystudent  information, student  records  or  student-generated  content  in  the  possession  of  the contractor that   is   not   (A)   otherwise   prohibited   from   deletion   or required  to  be  retained  under  state  or  federal  law,  or  (B)  stored  as  a copy  as  part  of  a  disaster  recovery  storage  system  and  that  is  (i) inaccessible  to  the  public,  and  (ii)  unable  to  be  used  in  the  normal course  of  business  by  the  contractor,  provided  such  local  or  regional board  of  education  may  request  the  deletion  of  any  such  student information, student records or student-generated content if such copy has been used by the operator to repopulate accessible data following a disaster recovery;(3)A    statement    that    the    contractor    shall    not    use    student information,  student  records  and  student-generated  content  for  any purposes other than those authorized pursuant to the contract;(4)A  description  of  the  procedures  by  whicha  student,  parent  or legal   guardian   of   a   student   may   review   personally   identifiable information   contained   in   student   information,   student   records   or student-generated content and correct erroneous information, if any, in such student record;(5)A  statement  that  the  contractor  shall  take  actions  designed  to ensure the security and confidentiality of student information, student records and student-generated content;
