Second Regular Session 118th General Assembly (2014)

PRINTING CODE. Amendments: Whenever an existing statute (or a section of the Indiana
Constitution) is being amended, the text of the existing provision will appear in this style type,
additions will appear in this style type, and deletions will appear in this style type.
  Additions: Whenever a new statutory provision is being enacted (or a new constitutional
provision adopted), the text of the new provision will appear in  this  style  type. Also, the
word NEW will appear in that style type in the introductory clause of each SECTION that adds
a new provision to the Indiana Code or the Indiana Constitution.
  Conflict reconciliation: Text in a statute in this style type or this style type reconciles conflicts
between  statutes  enacted  by  the  2013  Regular  Session  and  2013  First  Regular  Technical
Session of the General Assembly.

HOUSE ENROLLED ACT No. 1003

AN ACT to amend the Indiana Code concerning state and local administration.

Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana:

SECTION 1. IC 5-28-7-1, AS ADDED BY P.L.4-2005, SECTION
34, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE JULY 1,
2014]: Sec. 1. As used in The following definitions apply throughout
this chapter:

(1)  "Business"  includes  an  entity  that  has  the  objective  of
supplying a service or an article of trade or commerce.
(2)  "School  corporation"  has  the  meaning  set  forth  in
IC 20-18-2-16(a).
(3)  "Charter  school"  has  the  meaning  set  forth 
IC 20-18-2-2.5.

in

SECTION  2.  IC  5-28-7-2,  AS  AMENDED  BY  P.L.67-2013,
SECTION 1, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2014]: Sec. 2. The corporation shall do the following:

(1) Establish policies to carry out a training assistance program,
the purpose of which is to provide assistance to the following:

(A) New or expanding businesses, for the training or retraining
of potential or incumbent employees and the retraining and
upgrading of the skills of potential or incumbent employees.
(B) Businesses in Indiana, for the retraining and upgrading of
employees' skills required to support new or existing capital
investment.
(C)  Businesses  in  Indiana,  for  the  development  of  basic
workforce skills of employees, including the following:

HEA 1003 — CC 1

2

(i) Literacy.
(ii) Communication skills.
(iii) Computational skills.
(iv)  Other  transferable  workforce  skills  approved  by  the
corporation.

(D) School corporations and charter schools, to support
career  pathways  for  students  through  cooperative
arrangements  with  businesses  for  the  education  and
training of students in high wage, high demand jobs that
require industry certifications.

(2) Provide promotional materials regarding the training program.
(3)  Determine  the  eligibility  of  an  industry  for  the  training
program.
(4)  Require  a  commitment  by  a  business  receiving  training
assistance under this chapter to continue operations at a site on
which the training assistance is used for at least five (5) years
after the date the training assistance expires. If a business fails to
comply with this commitment, the corporation shall require the
business to repay the training assistance provided to the business
under this chapter.

SECTION 3. IC 5-28-7-4, AS ADDED BY P.L.4-2005, SECTION
34, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE JULY 1,
2014]:  Sec.  4.  Participation  in  the  training  program  is  limited  to
businesses entities that:

(1) meet the eligibility requirements of the corporation; and
(2) comply with this chapter.

SECTION 4. IC 5-28-7-6 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA CODE
AS A NEW SECTION TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE JULY
1, 2014]: Sec. 6. (a) The corporation may award grants from the
training 2000 fund to school corporations and charter schools to
support  cooperative  arrangements  with  businesses  for  training
students.

(b) A school corporation or a charter school must apply to the
corporation  for  a  grant  under  this  section  in  the  manner
prescribed by the corporation.
 
(c) The corporation may consult with Indiana works councils to
develop  the  application  and  eligibility  requirements  for  grants
awarded under this section.

SECTION  5.  IC  6-3.1-13-13,  AS  AMENDED  BY  P.L.4-2005,
SECTION 69, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2014]: Sec. 13. (a) The corporation may make credit awards
under this chapter for any of the following:

HEA 1003 — CC 1

3

(1) To foster job creation in Indiana.
(2) or, as provided in section 15.5 of this chapter, To foster job
retention in Indiana.
(3) For taxable years beginning after December 31, 2014, and
before January 1, 2019, to foster employment in Indiana of
students who participate in a course of study that includes a
cooperative arrangement between an educational institution
and an employer for the training of students in high wage,
high demand jobs that require an industry certification.
(b) The credit shall be claimed for the taxable years specified in the

taxpayer's tax credit agreement.

SECTION  6.  IC  6-3.1-13-14,  AS  AMENDED  BY  P.L.4-2005,
SECTION 70, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2014]: Sec. 14. (a) A person that proposes a project to create
new  jobs  in  Indiana  may  apply,  as  provided  in  section  15  of  this
chapter, to the corporation to enter into an agreement for a tax credit
under this chapter.

(b) A person that proposes to retain existing jobs in Indiana may
apply, as provided in section 15.5 of this chapter, to the corporation to
enter into an agreement for a tax credit under this chapter.

(c)  This  subsection  applies  to  taxable  years  beginning  after
December 31, 2014, and before January 1, 2019. A person that
proposes to employ in Indiana students who have participated in
a course of study that includes a cooperative arrangement between
an  educational  institution  and  an  employer  for  the  training  of
students in high wage, high demand jobs that require an industry
certification may apply, as provided in section 15.7 of this chapter,
to the corporation to enter into a agreement for a tax credit under
this chapter.

(d) The director shall prescribe the form of the application.
SECTION  7.  IC  6-3.1-13-15.7  IS  ADDED  TO  THE  INDIANA
CODE  AS  A  NEW  SECTION  TO  READ  AS  FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2014]: Sec. 15.7. (a) This section applies to an
application proposing to employ students who have participated in
a course of study that includes a cooperative arrangement between
an  educational  institution  and  an  employer  for  the  training  of
students in high wage, high demand jobs that require an industry
certification.

(b) A taxpayer who wishes to claim the credit provided by this
chapter for employment of candidates to which this section applies
may submit an application to the corporation after June 30, 2014,
for a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2014, and before

HEA 1003 — CC 1

4

January 1, 2019, in the manner prescribed by the corporation.

(c) After receipt of an application, the corporation may enter
into an agreement with the applicant for a tax credit under this
chapter if the corporation determines that the applicant:

(1) participates in at least one (1) cooperative arrangement
with an educational institution for the training of students in
high  wage,  high  demand  jobs  that  require  an  industry
certification; and
(2) meets any additional eligibility conditions established by
the corporation.

(d) The corporation may consult with the Indiana career council
to develop eligibility and performance conditions that an applicant
must  meet  to  qualify  for  a  credit  award  to  which  this  section
applies.

(e) The aggregate amount of tax credits awarded under this
section  for  a  state  fiscal  year  may  not  exceed  two  million  five
hundred thousand dollars ($2,500,000).

SECTION  8.  IC  6-3.1-13-19.7  IS  ADDED  TO  THE  INDIANA
CODE  AS  A  NEW  SECTION  TO  READ  AS  FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2014]: Sec. 19.7. (a) In the case of a credit
awarded  for  employment  in  Indiana  of  students  who  have
participated  in  a  course  of  study  that  includes  a  cooperative
arrangement between an educational institution and an employer
for the training of students in high wage, high demand jobs that
require an industry certification, the corporation shall enter into
an agreement with an applicant that is awarded a credit under this
chapter. The agreement must include all the following:

(1) A detailed description of the applicant's own cooperative
arrangements  between  the  applicant  and  educational
institutions  for  the  training  of  students  in  high  wage,  high
demand jobs that require an industry certification.
(2) The duration of the tax credit and the first taxable year for
which the credit may be claimed.
(3) The credit amount that will be allowed for each taxable
year.
(4)  A  requirement  that  the  taxpayer  shall  maintain  the
applicant's cooperative arrangements between the applicant
and  educational  institutions  for the  training  of  students  in
high  wage,  high  demand  jobs  that  require  an  industry
certification  for  at  least  two  (2)  years  following  the  last
taxable year in which the applicant claims the tax credit or
carries over an unused part of the tax credit under section 18

HEA 1003 — CC 1

5

of this chapter. A taxpayer is subject to an assessment under
section  22  of  this  chapter  for  noncompliance  with  the
requirement described in this subdivision.
(5)  A  specific  method  for  determining  the  number  of
employees who:

(A) were students who participated in a course of study
that  included  a  cooperative  arrangement  between  an
employer and an educational institution for the training of
students in high wage, high demand jobs that require an
industry certification; and
(B) are employed during a taxable year.

(6) A requirement that the taxpayer annually shall report to
the corporation:

(A) the number of employees who participated in a course
of study that includes a cooperative arrangement between
an employer and an educational institution for the training
of students in high wage, high demand jobs that require an
industry certification;
(B) the income tax revenue withheld in connection with the
employees described in clause (A); and
(C) any other information the director needs to perform
the director's duties under this chapter.

(7) A requirement that the director is authorized to verify
with the appropriate state agencies the information reported
under  subdivision  (6),  and  after  doing  so  shall  issue  a
certificate  to the taxpayer stating that the information has
been verified.
(8)  A  requirement  that  the  taxpayer  shall  provide  written
notification to the director and the corporation not more than
thirty  (30)  days  after  the  taxpayer  makes  or  receives  a
proposal that would transfer the taxpayer's state tax liability
obligations to a successor taxpayer.
(9) Any other performance conditions that the corporation
determines are appropriate.

(b) A taxpayer who is awarded a credit under this chapter for
employees who participated in a course of study that included a
cooperative agreement between an employer and an educational
institution for the training of students in high wage, high demand
jobs that require an industry certification may claim the credit
only for employees whose course of study included a cooperative
arrangement between the taxpayer and an educational institution
for the training of students in high wage, high demand jobs that

HEA 1003 — CC 1

6

require an industry certification.

SECTION 9. IC 22-4.5-9-2 IS REPEALED [EFFECTIVE JULY 1,
2014]. Sec. 2. As used in this chapter, "system" refers to the Indiana
workforce intelligence system established by IC 22-4.5-10-3.

SECTION 10. IC 22-4.5-9-4, AS AMENDED BY SEA 24-2014,
SECTION  101,  AND  BY  HEA  1064-2014,  SECTION  1,  IS
AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2014]:
Sec. 4. (a) The council shall do all of the following:

(1) Provide coordination to align the various participants in the
state's  education,  job  skills  development,  and  career  training
system.
(2) Match the education and skills training provided by the state's
education, job skills development, and career training system with
the currently existing and future needs of the state's job market.
(3) Provide administrative oversight of the system.
(4)  (3)  In  addition  to  the  department's  annual  report  provided
under IC 22-4-18-7, submit, not later than August 1, 2013, and
not later than November 1 each year thereafter, to the legislative
council in an electronic format under IC 5-14-6 an inventory of
current job and career training activities conducted by:

(A) state and local agencies; and
(B)  whenever  the  information  is  readily  available,  private
groups,  associations,  and  other  participants  in  the  state's
education, job skills development, and career training system.
The  inventory  must  provide  at  least  the  information  listed  in
IC 22-4-18-7(a)(1) through IC 22-4-18-7(a)(5) for each activity in
the inventory.
(5)  (4)  Submit,  not  later  than  July  1,  2014,  to  the  legislative
council in an electronic format under IC 5-14-6 a strategic plan to
improve the state's education, job skills development, and career
training  system.  The  council  shall  submit,  not  later  than
December  1,  2013,  to  the  legislative  council  in  an  electronic
format  under  IC  5-14-6  a  progress  report  concerning  the
development of the strategic plan. The strategic plan developed
under this subdivision must include at least the following:

to 

(A) Proposed changes, including recommended legislation and
rules, 
increase  coordination,  data  sharing,  and
communication among the state, local, and private agencies,
groups, and associations that are involved in education, job
skills development, and career training.
(B) Proposed changes to make Indiana a leader in employment
opportunities  related  to  the  fields  of  science,  technology,

HEA 1003 — CC 1

7

engineering, and mathematics (commonly known as STEM).
(C) Proposed changes to address both:

(i) the shortage of qualified workers for current employment
opportunities; and
(ii) the shortage of employment opportunities for individuals
with a baccalaureate or more advanced degree.

(6)  (5)  Complete,  not  later  than  August  1,  2014,  a  return  on
investment and utilization study of career and technical education
programs in Indiana. The study conducted under this subdivision
must include at least the following:

(A)  An  examination  of  Indiana's  career  and  technical
education programs to determine:
(i) the use of the programs; and
(ii)  the  impact  of  the  programs  on  college  and  career
readiness, employment, and economic opportunity.

(B) A survey of the use of secondary, college, and university
facilities,  equipment,  and  faculty  by  career  and  technical
education programs.
(C) Recommendations concerning how career and technical
education programs:

(i) give a preference for courses leading to employment in
high wage, high demand jobs; and
(ii)  add  performance  based  funding  to  ensure  greater
competitiveness among program providers and to increase
completion  of  industry  recognized  credentials  and  dual
credit  courses  that  lead  directly  to  employment  or
postsecondary study.

(7) (6) Coordinate the performance of its duties under this chapter
with:

(A) the education roundtable established by IC 20-19-4-2; and
(B) the Indiana works councils established by IC 20-19-6-4.
(b) In performing its duties, the council shall obtain input from the

(1) Indiana employers and employer organizations.
(2) Public and private institutions of higher education.
(3) Regional and local economic development organizations.
(4) Indiana labor organizations.
(5) Individuals with expertise in career and technical education.
(6) Military and veterans organizations.
(7)  Organizations  representing  women,  African-Americans,
Latinos, and other significant minority populations and having an
interest in issues of particular concern to these populations.

following:

HEA 1003 — CC 1

8

(8) Individuals and organizations with expertise in the logistics
industry.
(9) Any other person or organization that a majority of the voting
members  of  the  council  determines  has  information  that  is
important for the council to consider.

SECTION  11.  IC  22-4.5-9-9,  AS  ADDED  BY  P.L.60-2013,
SECTION 1, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2014]: Sec. 9. The governor may request the assistance of any
state agency, board, commission, committee, department, division, or
other  entity  of  the  executive  department  of  state  government  as
necessary to provide staff and administrative support to the council.
and the system.

SECTION 12. IC 22-4.5-10-1.5 IS ADDED TO THE INDIANA
CODE  AS  A  NEW  SECTION  TO  READ  AS  FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE  JULY  1,  2014]:  Sec.  1.5.  As  used  in  this  chapter,
"governance committee" refers to the INK governance committee
established by section 7 of this chapter.

SECTION  13.  IC  22-4.5-10-2,  AS  ADDED  BY  P.L.60-2013,
SECTION 2, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2014]: Sec. 2. As used in this chapter, "system" "INK" refers
to the Indiana workforce intelligence system network of knowledge
established by section 3 of this chapter.

SECTION  14.  IC  22-4.5-10-3,  AS  ADDED  BY  P.L.60-2013,
SECTION 2, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY  1,  2014]:  Sec.  3.  The  Indiana  workforce  intelligence  system
network of knowledge is established as a statewide longitudinal data
system that contains educational and workforce information:
(1) from educational institutions at all levels; and
(2) about the state's workforce;

to improve the effect of the state's educational delivery system on the
economic opportunities of individuals and the state's workforce, and to
guide state and local decision makers.

SECTION  15.  IC  22-4.5-10-4,  AS  ADDED  BY  P.L.60-2013,
SECTION 2, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2014]: Sec. 4. (a) The system INK must do the following:

(1)  Effectively  organize,  manage,  break  down,  and  analyze
educational, and workforce, and other data.
(2)  Generate  timely  and  accurate  information  about  student
progress and outcomes over time, including students' preparation
for postsecondary education and the workforce.
(3) Generate timely and accurate information that is available to
the  public  about  the  effectiveness  of  the  state's  job  training

HEA 1003 — CC 1

9

programs, including at least the following:

(A) The number of participants in each program.
(B) The number of participants who, as a result of the training
received in the program:

(i) secured employment; or
(ii) were retained by an employer.

(C)  The  average  wage  of  the  participants  who  secured
employment or were retained by an employer.

(4) Support the economic development and other activities of
state and local governments.

(b) The INK may not obtain or store the following student data:

(1) Disciplinary records.
(2) Juvenile delinquency records.
(3) Criminal records.
(4) Medical and health records.

SECTION  16.  IC  22-4.5-10-5,  AS  ADDED  BY  P.L.60-2013,
SECTION 2, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2014]: Sec. 5. (a) The department of education (established
by  IC  20-19-3-1),  the  department  of  workforce  development
(established by IC 22-4.1-2-1), the commission for higher education
(established  by  IC  21-18-2-1),  and  other  agencies  of  the  state  that
collect relevant data related to educational and workforce outcomes
shall submit that data to the system INK on a timely basis and shall
ensure the following:

(1)  Routine  and  ongoing  compliance  with  the  federal  Family
Educational  Rights  and  Privacy  Act  (20  U.S.C.  1232g),
IC  22-4-19-6,  and  other  relevant  privacy  laws  and  policies,
including the following:

(A) The required use of data that cannot be used to identify
information relating to a specific individual or entity.
(B) The required disposition of information that is no longer
needed.
(C)  The  provision  of  a  data  security  plan,  including  the
performance  of  regular  audits  for  compliance  with  data
privacy and security standards.
(D) The implementation of guidelines and policies to prevent
the  reporting  of  other  data  that  may  potentially  be  used  to
identify information relating to a specific individual or entity.
(2)  The  use  of  data  only  in  summary  form  in  reports  and
responses to information requests. Data that may identify specific
individuals or entities because of the size or uniqueness of the
population involved may not be reported in any form.

HEA 1003 — CC 1

10

(b) After June 30, 2014, other agencies of the state shall submit
to the INK on a timely basis relevant data, including data at the
individual level, as determined by the INK governance committee.
(c) The data submitted to INK under subsections (a) and (b):

(1) remains under the ownership and control of the agency
submitting the data; and
(2) may be used only for the purposes of this chapter, unless
the agency that submitted the data consents to the additional
use.

(d) After June 30, 2014, the following may submit educational,
workforce, and other relevant data, as applicable, to the INK by
working with and through the INK executive director:

(1) Private sector business or commercial employers, groups,
associations, agencies, and other entities.
(2) Private institutions of higher education.

SECTION  17.  IC  22-4.5-10-6,  AS  ADDED  BY  P.L.60-2013,
SECTION 2, IS AMENDED TO READ AS FOLLOWS [EFFECTIVE
JULY 1, 2014]: Sec. 6. (a) The:

(1) council, before July 1, 2018; 2014; and
(2) governor, governance committee, working in collaboration
with the executive director, after June 30, 2018; 2014;

shall provide administrative oversight to the system INK through the
executive director.

(b) Administrative oversight of the system INK includes all the

following:

the  system,  INK, 

(1) Provide general oversight and direction for the development
and  maintenance  of 
including  the
organizational framework for the day to day management of
the INK.
(2) Approve an annual budget for the system. Work with the
executive director and other state agencies participating in the
INK to establish the following:

(A) A standard compliance time frame for the submission
of data to the INK.
(B) Interagency policies and agreements to ensure equal
access to the INK.
(C)  Interagency  policies  and  agreements  to  ensure  the
ongoing success of the INK.

(3) Hire staff necessary to administer the system. INK.
(4)  Develop  and  implement  a  detailed  data  security  and
safeguarding plan that includes:

(A) access by authenticated authorization;

HEA 1003 — CC 1

11

(B) privacy compliance standards;
(C) notification and other procedures to protect system data if
a breach of the system INK occurs; and
(D) policies for data retention and disposition.

(5) Oversee Develop and implement policies to provide routine
and  ongoing  compliance  with  the  federal  Family  Educational
Rights and Privacy Act (20 U.S.C. 1232g), IC 22-4-19-6, and
other relevant privacy laws and policies.
(6) Establish the policy and research agenda for the INK.
(6) (7) Review research requirements and Establish policies for
responding to data requests from the state, local agencies, the
general assembly, and the public. The policies established under
this subdivision must provide for access to data in the INK
requested by the legislative department of state government.
If the data requested by the legislative department includes
data that is restricted by federal law, regulation, or executive
order, the governance committee shall provide access to the
legislative  department  to  the  restricted  data  to  the  extent
permitted  by  the  applicable  federal  law,  regulation,  or
executive order.
(7) (8) Oversee the development of public access to the system
INK in a manner that:

(A) permits research using the data in aggregated form; and
(B) cannot provide information that allows the identification
of a specific individual or entity.

(8) Identify additional sources of data for the system from among
state entities and require those entities to submit relevant data to
the system.
(9) Submit, not later than September 1, 2015, and not later
than September 1 each year thereafter, to the governor, to the
legislative council in an electronic format under IC 5-14-6,
and to the council,  a  report covering the following for the
most recent fiscal year:

(A) An update concerning the administration of the INK
and the governance committee's activities.
(B) An overview of all studies performed.
(C)  Any  proposed  or  planned  expansions  of  the  data
maintained by the INK.
(D)  Any  other  recommendations made  by the  executive
director and the governance committee.

(c)  Funding  for  the  development,  maintenance,  and  use  of  the

system INK may be obtained from any of the following sources:

HEA 1003 — CC 1

12

(1) Appropriations made by the general assembly for this purpose.
(2) Grants or other assistance from local educational agencies or
institutions of higher education.
(3) Federal grants.
(4) User fees.
(5)  Grants  or  amounts  received  from  other  public  or  private
entities.

(d)  The  council  (before  July  1,  2018)  2014)  and  the  governor
through  the  executive  director  (after  June  30,  2018)  2014)  may
contract with public or private entities for the following purposes:

(1)  To  develop  and  maintain  the  system,  INK,  including  the
analytical  and  security  capabilities  of  the  INK.  Contracts
made under this subdivision must include:

(A)  express  provisions  that  safeguard  the  privacy  and
security of the INK; and
(B)  penalties  for  failure  to  comply  with  the  provisions
described in clause (A).

(2) To conduct research in support of the activities and objectives
listed in section 4 of this chapter.
(3) To conduct research on topics at the request of the council, the
governor, or the general assembly.

SECTION  18.  IC  22-4.5-10-7  IS  ADDED  TO  THE  INDIANA
CODE  AS  A  NEW  SECTION  TO  READ  AS  FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE  JULY  1,  2014]:  Sec.  7.  (a)  The  INK  governance
committee is established.

(b) The governance committee consists of at least the following

six (6) members:

(1)  The  commissioner  of  the  department  of  workforce
development, or the commissioner's designee with authority
to act on behalf of the commissioner.
(2) The commissioner of the commission for higher education,
or the commissioner's designee with authority to act on behalf
of the commissioner.
(3) The state superintendent of public instruction, or the state
superintendent's designee with authority to act on behalf of
the state superintendent.
(4)  One  (1)  member  representing  private  colleges  and
universities appointed by the governor.
(5) One (1) member representing the business community in
Indiana appointed by the governor.
(6) The INK executive director. The INK executive director
serves in a nonvoting advisory capacity.

HEA 1003 — CC 1

13

(c)  The  governor  may  appoint  additional  members  to  the
governance committee as necessary to ensure the continued success
of the INK. Additional members appointed under this subsection
must represent other state agencies or partner organizations, as
determined by the governance committee, that submit data to the
INK.

(d) A member of the governance committee appointed by the

governor serves at the pleasure of the governor.

(e) The governor shall make the initial appointments under this

section not later than July 15, 2014.

(f) A vacancy on the governance committee is filled in the same

manner as the original appointment.

(g)  The  governor  shall  appoint  the  chair  of  the  governance
committee from its voting members. The chair serves for one (1)
year, or until a successor is selected.
 
at the call of the chair.

(h) The governance committee shall meet at least quarterly or

(i)  A  majority  of  the  voting  members  of  the  governance
committee  constitutes  a  quorum  for  the  purpose  of  conducting
business. The affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the
governance committee is required for the governance committee
to take official action.

SECTION  19.  IC  22-4.5-10-8  IS  ADDED  TO  THE  INDIANA
CODE  AS  A  NEW  SECTION  TO  READ  AS  FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE JULY 1, 2014]: Sec. 8. (a) The governor shall:

(1) appoint an INK executive director from a list of three (3)
candidates submitted by the governance committee; or
(2) reject all of the candidates on the list submitted by the
governance committee.

(b)  If  the  governor  rejects  all  of  the  candidates  on  the  list
submitted by the governance committee, the governor shall notify
the chair of the governance committee.

(c) Not later than thirty (30) days after the date the governance
committee receives the governor's notice under subsection (b), the
governance committee shall submit to the governor a second list of
three (3) new candidates for the position of INK executive director.
The governor shall appoint the INK executive director from the
second list of candidates submitted by the governance committee.
(d)  The  INK executive director serves at the pleasure of the

governor.

(e)  Whenever  a  vacancy  in  the  position  of  INK  executive
director  occurs,  the  governor  shall  notify  the  chair  of  the

HEA 1003 — CC 1

14

governance committee. Not later than ten (10) days after the date
the governance committee receives notice of the vacancy, the chair
shall  call  a  meeting  of  the  governance  committee  to  begin  the
process of filling the vacancy. Not later than thirty (30) days after
the date the governance committee receives notice of the vacancy,
the governance committee shall submit to the governor a list of
three (3) candidates to fill the vacancy.

(f) The governance committee shall submit to the governor the
initial list of three (3) candidates for INK executive director not
later than August 15, 2014.

(g)  The  executive  director  is  responsible  for  the  daily

administration of the INK.

(h) The executive director shall do all the following:

(1) Work with the governance committee, state agencies, and
other  entities  participating  in  the  INK  to  develop  and
implement appropriate policies and procedures concerning
the INK's data quality, integrity, transparency, security, and
confidentiality.
(2)  Coordinate  the  provision  and  delivery  of  data,  as
determined  by  the  governance  committee,  to  ensure  that
research project timelines and deliverables to stakeholders
are met.
(3)  Provide  reports  concerning  the  INK  and  the  executive
director's  activities  to  the  governor  and  the  governance
committee.
(4) Work in collaboration with the governance committee to
hire staff as necessary to administer the INK.
(5) Perform other duties as assigned by the governor.

SECTION  20.  IC  22-4.5-10-9  IS  ADDED  TO  THE  INDIANA
CODE  AS  A  NEW  SECTION  TO  READ  AS  FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE  JULY  1,  2014]:  Sec.  9.  (a)  Each  member  of  the
governance committee who is not a state employee is entitled to the
following:

(1) The salary per diem provided under IC 4-10-11-2.1(b).
(2) Reimbursement for traveling expenses as provided under
IC 4-13-1-4.
(3) Other expenses actually incurred in connection with the
member's  duties  as  provided  in  the  state  policies  and
procedures  established  by  the  Indiana  department  of
administration and approved by the budget agency.

(b) Each member of the governance committee who is a state

employee is entitled to the following:

HEA 1003 — CC 1

15

(1) Reimbursement for traveling expenses as provided under
IC 4-13-1-4.
(2) Other expenses actually incurred in connection with the
member's  duties  as  provided  in  the  state  policies  and
procedures  established  by  the  Indiana  department  of
administration and approved by the budget agency.

SECTION 21. IC 22-4.5-10.5-3, AS AMENDED BY SEA 24-2014,
SECTION  102,  IS  AMENDED  TO  READ  AS  FOLLOWS
[EFFECTIVE  JULY  1,  2014]:  Sec.  3.  (a)  The  department,  in
consultation with the commission for higher education, the department
of education, the office of the secretary of family and social services,
and any other agency the department determines is necessary, shall
include  in  the  Indiana  workforce  intelligence  system  network  of
knowledge established by IC 22-4.5-10-3 as added by HB 1002-2013,
SECTION  2,  information  regarding  the  middle  skill  credentials
awarded in Indiana for the immediately preceding state fiscal year.
(b) The information required under subsection (a) must include:

(1)  the  aggregate  number  of  enrollees  in  programs  leading  to
middle skill credentials from:

(A) public institutions of higher education;
(B) private institutions of higher education;
(C) postsecondary proprietary educational institutions;
(D) community colleges;
(E) area vocational schools;
(F) high school vocational programs;
(G) apprenticeship programs; and
(H) other public or private workforce training programs; and
(2) aggregate data of industry based certifications awarded as the
result of the completion of education and employment training
programs.

(c)  The  department  shall  publish  the  information  described  in

subsection (b) in the department's annual report.

HEA 1003 — CC 1

Speaker of the House of Representatives

President of the Senate

President Pro Tempore

Governor of the State of Indiana

Date: 

                               Time: 

HEA 1003 — CC 1


