SENATE BILL No. 367

AN ACT concerning schools; creating the student data privacy act; amending K.S.A.
2013 Supp. 72-6214 and repealing the existing section.

Be it enacted by the Legislature of the State of Kansas:

New Section 1. Sections 1 through 9, and amendments thereto, shall

be known and may be cited as the student data privacy act.

New Sec. 2. As used in sections 1 through 9, and amendments

thereto:
(a)

‘‘Aggregate data’’ means data collected or reported at the group,
cohort or institutional level and which contains no personally identifiable
student data.

(b)

‘‘Biometric data’’ means one or more measurable biological or
behavioral characteristics that can be used for automated recognition of
an individual, such as fingerprints, retina and iris patterns, voiceprints,
DNA sequence, facial characteristics and handwriting.

(c)
(d)

‘‘Department’’ means the state department of education.
‘‘Directory information’’ means a student’s name, address, tele-
phone listing, participation in officially recognized activities and sports,
weight and height if the student is a member of an athletic team, and
degrees, honors or awards received.

(e)
(f)

‘‘Educational agency’’ means a school district or the department.
‘‘School district’’ means a unified school district organized and

operated under the laws of this state.

(g)

‘‘Statewide longitudinal student data system’’ means any student
data system maintained by the department, which assigns a state identi-
fication number for each student who attends an accredited public or
private school in Kansas and uses the state identification number to collect
student data.

(h)

‘‘Student data’’ means the following information contained in a

student’s educational record:

(1) State and national assessment results, including information on

untested students;

information;

(2)

course taking and completion, credits earned and other transcript

course grades and grade point average;

(3)
(4) date of birth, grade level and expected date of graduation;
(5) degree, diploma, credential attainment and other school exit in-

formation such as general education development and drop-out data;

attendance and mobility;

(6)
(7) data required to calculate the federal four-year adjusted cohort

graduation rate, including sufficient exit and drop-out information;

remediation;
special education data;

(8)
(9)
(10) demographic data and program participation information; and
(11)
(i)

any other information included in a student’s educational record.
‘‘Personally identifiable student data’’ means student data that,
alone or in combination, is linked or linkable to a specific student and
would allow a reasonable person to identify the student with reasonable
certainty.

New Sec. 3.

(a) Any student data submitted to and maintained by a
statewide longitudinal student data system shall only be disclosed by an
educational agency in accordance with the provisions of this section. An
educational agency shall provide annual written notice to each student’s
parent or legal guardian that student data may be disclosed in accordance
with this section. Such notice shall be signed by the student’s parent or
legal guardian and maintained on file with the district.
(b) Student data may be disclosed at any time to:
(1) The authorized personnel of an educational agency who require

such disclosures to perform their assigned duties;

(2)

the authorized personnel of the state board of regents who require

such disclosures to perform their assigned duties; and

(3)

the student and the parent or legal guardian of the student, pro-

vided the student data pertains solely to such student.

(c) Student data may be disclosed to the authorized personnel of any
state agency not specified in subsection (b), or to a service provider of a
state agency, educational agency or school who is engaged to perform a
function of instruction, assessment or longitudinal reporting, provided

SENATE BILL No. 367—page 2

there is a data-sharing agreement between the educational agency and
such other state agency or service provider that provides the following:
(1) The purpose, scope and duration of the data-sharing agreement;
that the recipient of the student data use such information solely
(2)

for the purposes specified in the agreement;

(3)

that the recipient shall comply with data access, use and security

restrictions that are specifically described in the agreement; and

(4)

that the student data shall be destroyed when no longer necessary
for the purposes of the data-sharing agreement or upon expiration of the
data-sharing agreement, whichever occurs first. Except that a service pro-
vider engaged to perform a function of instruction may retain student
transcripts as required by applicable laws and rules and regulations. De-
struction shall comply with the NISTSP800-88 standards of data destruc-
tion.

(d) (1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2), student data
may be disclosed to any governmental entity not specified in subsection
(b) or (c), or to any public or private audit and evaluation or research
organization, provided that only aggregate data is disclosed to such gov-
ernmental entity or audit and evaluation or research organization.

(2) Personally identifiable student data may be disclosed if the stu-
dent, if an adult, or the parent or legal guardian of the student, if a minor,
consents to such disclosure in writing.

(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (b), (c) and (d), an

educational agency may disclose:

(1) Directory information of a student when such agency deems such
disclosure necessary and the disclosure of which has been consented to
in writing by such student’s parent or legal guardian;

(2) directory information to an enhancement vendor that provides
photography services, class ring services, yearbook publishing services,
memorabilia services or other substantially similar services;

(3)

any information required to be disclosed pursuant to K.S.A. 65-
101, 65-118 and 65-202, and amendments thereto, provided such infor-
mation is disclosed in accordance with any provisions of such statutes
regarding the confidentiality and disclosure of such information;

(4)

any student data in order to comply with any lawful subpoena or

court order directing such disclosure; and

(5)

student data to a public or private postsecondary educational in-
stitution which is required by such postsecondary educational institution
for the purposes of application or admission of a student to such postse-
condary educational institution, provided that such disclosure is con-
sented to in writing by such student.

New Sec. 4. No school district shall collect biometric data from a
student, or use any device or mechanism to assess a student’s physiological
or emotional state, unless the student, if an adult, or the parent or legal
guardian of the student, if a minor, consents in writing.

New Sec. 5. No test, questionnaire, survey or examination containing
any questions about the student’s personal beliefs or practices on issues
such as sex, family life, morality or religion, or any questions about the
student’s parents’ or guardians’ beliefs and practices on issues such as sex,
family life, morality or religion, shall be administered to any student en-
rolled in kindergarten or grades one through 12, unless the parent or
guardian of the student is notified in writing that this test, questionnaire,
survey or examination is to be administered and the parent or guardian
of the student gives written permission for the student to take this test,
questionnaire, survey or examination. This section shall not prohibit
school counselors from providing counseling services to a student, in-
cluding the administration of tests and forms which are part of a coun-
selor’s student counseling services. Any information obtained through
such tests or counseling services shall not be stored on any personal mo-
bile electronic device which is not owned by the school district, including
but not limited to, laptops, tablets, phones, flash drives, external hard
drives or virtual servers.

New Sec. 6. The attorney general or any district attorney may enforce
the provisions of sections 1 through 8, and amendments thereto, by bring-
ing an action in a court of competent jurisdiction, and may seek injunctive
relief to enjoin any educational agency, any employee or agent thereof,
or any other entity in possession of student data from disclosing any stu-

SENATE BILL No. 367—page 3

dent data in violation of the provisions of sections 1 through 8, and
amendments thereto.

New Sec. 7.

In the event of a security breach or unauthorized disclo-
sure of student data or personally identifiable information of any student,
whether by a school district, the department, the state board of education,
state agency, or other entity or third party given access to student data or
personally identifiable information of any student, the school district, de-
partment, state board of education, state agency, or other entity or third
party shall immediately notify each affected student, if an adult, or the
parent or legal guardian of the student, if a minor, of the breach or unau-
thorized disclosure and investigate the causes and consequences of the
breach or unauthorized disclosure.

New Sec. 8. The department shall annually publish on its website the
categories of student data that are submitted to and maintained in any
statewide longitudinal student data system. Publications required by this
section shall be published with an easily identifiable link located on the
department’s website homepage.

New Sec. 9. On or before May 15, 2015, and each year thereafter,
the state board shall submit to the governor and the legislature a written
report. The report shall include, but not be limited to, the following in-
formation:

(a) Any categories of student data collected for the statewide longi-
tudinal student data system that are not otherwise described as student
data under section 2, and amendments thereto;

(b)

any changes to existing data collections, which includes changes
to federal reporting requirements by the secretary of the United States
department of education;

(c)

an explanation of any exceptions provided by the state board in
the preceding calendar year regarding the release or transfer of student
data; and
(d)

the scope and nature of any privacy or security audits completed

in the preceding calendar year.

Sec. 10. K.S.A. 2013 Supp. 72-6214 is hereby amended to read as
follows: 72-6214. (a) As used in this section, the following terms shall
have the meanings respectively ascribed to them unless the context re-
quires otherwise:

(1)

‘‘Board’’ means the state board of regents, the state board of ed-
ucation, the board of trustees of any public community college, the board
of regents of any municipal university, the governing board of any tech-
nical college and the board of education of any school district.

(2)

‘‘Student’’ means a person who has attained 18 years of age, or is

attending an institution of postsecondary education.

(3)

‘‘Pupil’’ means a person who has not attained 18 years of age and

is attending an educational institution below the postsecondary level.

(b) Every board shall adopt a policy in accordance with the student
data privacy act and applicable federal laws and regulations to protect
the right of privacy of any student, or pupil and such pupil’s family re-
garding personally identifiable records, files and data directly related to
such student or pupil. The board shall adopt and implement procedures
to effectuate such policy by January 1, 1977. Such procedures shall pro-
vide for: (1) Means by which any student or parent of a pupil, as the case
may be, may inspect and review any records or files directly related to
the student or pupil; and (2) restricting the accessibility and availability
of any personally identifiable records or files of any student or pupil and
preventing disclosure thereof unless made upon written consent of such
student or parent of such pupil, as the case may be. To the extent that
any other provision of law conflicts with this section, this section shall
control.

Sec. 11. K.S.A. 2013 Supp. 72-6214 is hereby repealed.

SENATE BILL No. 367—page 4

Sec. 12. This act shall take effect and be in force from and after its

publication in the statute book.

I hereby certify that the above BILL originated in the
SENATE, and passed that body

SENATE adopted

Conference Committee Report

Passed the HOUSE
as amended

HOUSE adopted

Conference Committee Report

APPROVED

President of the Senate.

Secretary of the Senate.

Speaker of the House.

Chief Clerk of the House.

Governor.


