365.734      Prohibited  uses  of  personally  identifiable  student  information  by  cloud 

computing service provider -- Administrative regulations. 

(1)  As used in this section: 

(a) 

(b) 

(c) 

(d) 

(e) 

(f) 

"Cloud computing service" means a service that provides, and that is marketed 
and designed to provide, an educational institution with account-based access 
to online computing resources; 
"Cloud  computing  service  provider"  means  any  person  other  than  an 
educational institution that operates a cloud computing service; 
"Educational  institution"  means  any  public,  private,  or  school  administrative 
unit serving students in kindergarten to grade twelve (12); 
"Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, company, 
or any other legal entity; 
"Process"  means  to  use,  access,  collect,  manipulate,  scan,  modify,  analyze, 
transform, disclose, store, transmit, aggregate, or dispose of student data; and 
"Student data" means any information or material, in any medium or format, 
that concerns a student and is created or provided by the student in the course 
of the student's use of cloud computing services, or by an agent or employee 
of the educational institution in connection with the cloud computing services. 
Student  data  includes  the  student's  name,  e-mail  address,  e-mail  messages, 
postal  address,  phone  number,  and  any  documents,  photos,  or  unique 
identifiers relating to the student. 

(2)  A cloud computing service provider shall not process student data for any purpose 
other  than  providing,  improving,  developing,  or  maintaining  the  integrity  of  its 
cloud computing services, unless the provider receives express permission from the 
student's  parent.  However,  a  cloud  computing  service  provider  may  assist  an 
educational  institution  to  conduct  educational  research as permitted  by the Family 
Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, as amended, 20 U.S.C. sec. 1232g. A 
cloud  computing  service  provider  shall  not  in  any  case  process  student  data  to 
advertise or facilitate advertising or to create or correct an individual or household 
profile  for  any  advertisement  purpose,  and  shall  not  sell,  disclose,  or  otherwise 
process student data for any commercial purpose. 

(3)  A cloud computing service provider that enters into an agreement to provide cloud 
computing  services  to  an  educational  institution  shall  certify  in  writing  to  the 
educational institution that it will comply with subsection (2) of this section. 
(4)  The  Kentucky  Board  of  Education  may  promulgate  administrative  regulations  in 
accordance  with  KRS  Chapter  13A  as  necessary  to  carry  out  the  requirements  of 
this section. 

Effective: July 15, 2014 

History:  Created 2014 Ky. Acts ch. 84, sec. 2, effective July 15, 2014. 


