Senate Bill No. 463–Committee on Education 
 
CHAPTER.......... 
 
AN  ACT  relating  to  education;  requiring  certain  providers  of 
electronic  applications  used  for  educational  purposes  to 
provide written disclosures concerning personally identifiable 
information  that  is  collected;  requiring  such  a  provider  to 
allow  certain  persons  to  review  and  correct  personally 
identifiable  information  about  a  pupil  maintained  by  the 
provider;  limiting  the  circumstances  under  which  such  a 
provider  may  collect,  use,  allow  access  to  or  transfer 
information  concerning  a  pupil; 
personally 
requiring such a provider to establish and carry out a detailed 
plan  for  the  security  of  data  concerning  pupils;  requiring 
teachers  and  other  licensed  personnel  employed  by  a  school 
district  or  charter  school  to  complete  certain  professional 
development;  requiring  certain  disciplinary  action  against  a 
teacher  or  administrator  for  willful  breaches  in  security  or 
confidentiality  of  certain  examinations;  providing  a  civil 
penalty  for  certain  violations;  and  providing  other  matters 
properly relating thereto. 

identifiable 

Legislative Counsel’s Digest: 
 
Section 5 of this bill requires a school service provider to provide to the board 
of trustees of a school district or the governing body of a school, as applicable, and 
a  teacher  who  uses  a  school  service,  a  written  disclosure  of:  (1)  the  types  of 
personally identifiable information collected by the school service provider; (2) the 
manner in which such information is used; (3) a description of the plan for security 
of  data  concerning  pupils  which  has  been  established  by  the  school  service 
provider; and (4) any material change to such a plan. Section 3 of this bill defines 
the  term  “school  service”  to  mean,  with  certain  exceptions,  an  Internet  website, 
online  service  or  mobile  application  that:  (1)  collects  or  maintains  personally 
identifiable  information  concerning  a  pupil;  (2)  is  used  primarily  for  educational 
purposes; (3) is designed and marketed for use in public schools; and (4) is used at 
the  direction  of  teachers  and  other  educational  personnel.  Section  5  requires  a 
school  service  provider  to:  (1)  allow  certain  pupils  or  the  parent  or  guardian  of  a 
pupil  to  review  personally  identifiable  information  about  the  pupil  maintained  by 
the school service provider; and (2) establish a process for making any corrections 
to such information.  
 
Section  6  of  this  bill  limits  the  circumstances  under  which  a  school  service 
provider  may  collect,  use,  allow  access  to  or  transfer  personally  identifiable 
information  concerning  a  pupil.  Section  6  requires  a  school  service  provider  to 
delete  personally  identifiable  information  concerning  a  pupil  at  the  request  of  the 
board  of  trustees  of  the  school  district  or  the  governing  body  of  the  school,  as 
applicable.  Section  6  requires  any  agreement  entered  into  by  a  school  service 
provider  that  provides  for  the  disclosure  of  personally  identifiable  information  to 
limit the circumstances under which the person or governmental entity to whom the 
information  is  disclosed  may  collect,  use  or  transfer  such  information  to 

 - 

– 2 – 

 
 
 
circumstances  authorized  by  law.  Section  6  also  subjects  any  school  service 
provider that violates these requirements to a civil penalty. 
 
Section 7 of this bill requires a school service provider to establish and carry 
out a detailed plan for the security of any data concerning pupils that is collected or 
maintained  by  the  school  service  provider.  Section  8  of  this  bill  requires  each 
school district and the governing body of a charter school or university school for 
profoundly  gifted  pupils,  as  applicable, 
to  annually  provide  professional 
development regarding the use of school service providers and the security of data 
concerning  pupils.  Section  8  also  requires  teachers  and  other  licensed  personnel 
employed  by  a school  district  or  charter  school to  annually complete  professional 
development regarding school service providers and the security of data concerning 
pupils. 
Section 8.3 of this bill authorizes a school service provider to use and disclose 
 
information  derived  from  personally  identifiable  information  to  demonstrate  the 
effectiveness of the products or services of the school service provider. Section 8.5 
of  this  bill  prohibits  a  person  or  governmental  entity  from  waiving  or  modifying 
any  right,  obligation  or  liability  provided  by  the  provisions  of  sections  1.5-8.5. 
Section 8.5 also provides that any condition, stipulation, or provision in a contract 
that conflicts with the provisions of sections 1.5-8.5 is void and unenforceable.  
 
Existing law authorizes a teacher to be suspended, dismissed or not reemployed 
and  an  administrator  to  be  demoted,  suspended,  dismissed  or  not  reemployed  for 
breaches  in  security  or  confidentiality  of  the  questions  and  answers  of  certain 
examinations. (NRS 391.3127) Section 9 of this bill instead requires a teacher to be 
suspended,  dismissed  or  not  reemployed  and  an  administrator  to  be  demoted, 
suspended,  dismissed  or  not  reemployed  if  the  teacher  or  administrator  is  found, 
through an investigation of a testing irregularity, to have willfully committed such a 
breach. 
 

EXPLANATION – Matter in bolded italics is new; matter between brackets [omitted material] is material to be omitted. 

 
 

THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEVADA, REPRESENTED IN 
SENATE AND ASSEMBLY, DO ENACT AS FOLLOWS: 

 
  Section  1.    Chapter 388 of NRS is hereby amended by adding 
thereto the provisions set forth as sections 1.25 to 8.5, inclusive, of 
this act. 
  Sec.  1.25.    (Deleted by amendment.) 
  Sec.  1.5.    As used in sections 1.25 to 8.5, inclusive, of this act, 
unless the context otherwise requires, the words and terms defined 
in  sections  2  to  4.5,  inclusive,  of  this  act  have  the  meanings 
ascribed to them in those sections. 
  Sec.  2.    “Personally 
meaning ascribed to it in 34 C.F.R. § 99.3. 
  Sec.  3.    1.    “School  service”  means  an  Internet  website, 
online service or mobile application that: 
 
concerning a pupil; 
 

(a)  Collects  or  maintains  personally  identifiable  information 

(b)  Is used primarily for educational purposes; and 

information”  has 

identifiable 

the 

 - 

 

 

– 3 – 

(c)  Is  designed  and  marketed  for  use  in  public  schools  and  is 

(c)  A school service for which a school service provider has: 
 

 
 
 
 
used at the direction of teachers and other educational personnel. 
2.    The term does not include: 
 
 
(a)  An  Internet  website,  online  service  or  mobile  application 
that is designed or marketed for use by a general audience, even if 
the school service is also marketed to public schools; 
 
(b)  An  internal  database,  system  or  program  maintained  or 
operated  by  a  school  district,  charter  school  or  university  school 
for profoundly gifted pupils; 
 
(1)  Been  designated  by  a  school  district,  the  sponsor  of  a 
 
charter  school,  the  governing  body  of  a  university  school  for 
profoundly  gifted  pupils  or  the  Department  as  a  school  official 
pursuant  to  the  Family  Educational  Rights  and  Privacy  Act  of 
1974, 20 U.S.C. § 1232(g); 
 
(2)  Entered  into  a  contract  with  the  school  district,  the 
sponsor  of  a  charter  school,  the  governing  body  of  a  university 
school for profoundly gifted pupils or the Department; and  
 
(3)  Agreed  to  comply  with  and be  subject  to  the  provisions 
of  the  Family  Educational  Rights  and  Privacy  Act  of  1974,  20 
U.S.C. § 1232(g), relating to personally identifiable information; 
 
(d)  Any  examinations  administered  pursuant  to  NRS  389.550 
and  389.805  or  the  college  and  career  readiness  assessment 
administered pursuant to NRS 389.807; or 
 
(e)  Any instructional programs purchased by a school district, 
a  charter  school,  the  governing  body  of  a  university  school  for 
profoundly gifted pupils or the Department. 
  Sec.  4.    “School  service  provider”  means  a  person  that 
operates a school service, to the extent the provider is operating in 
that capacity. 
  Sec.  4.5.    “Targeted 
presenting 
advertisements to a pupil where the advertisement is selected based 
on information obtained or inferred from the online behavior of a 
pupil, the use of applications by a pupil or personally identifiable 
information  concerning  a  pupil.  The  term  does  not  include 
advertising to a pupil at an online location based upon the current 
visit to the location by the pupil or a single search  query without 
the collection and retention of the online activities of a pupil over 
time.  
  Sec.  5.    1.    Before  the  persons  or  governmental  entities 
described  in  subsection  3  begin  using  a  school  service,  a  school 
service provider must provide a written disclosure to such persons 

advertising”  means 

 - 

– 4 – 

3.    The disclosure or notice provided pursuant to subsection 1 

 
 
 
or  governmental  entities  in  language  that  is  easy  to  understand, 
which includes, without limitation: 
 
(a)  The  types  of  personally  identifiable  information  collected 
by  the  school  service  provider  and  the  manner  in  which  such 
information is used; and 
(b)  A  description  of  the  plan  for  the  security  of  data 
 
concerning  pupils  which  has  been  established  by  the  school 
service provider pursuant to section 7 of this act. 
 
2.    Before a school service provider makes a material change 
to  the  plan  for  the  security  of  data  concerning  pupils  established 
pursuant to section 7 of this act, the school service provider must 
provide notice to the persons or governmental entities set forth in 
subsection 3. 
 
or 2, as applicable, must be provided to: 
 
(a)  The  board  of  trustees  of  a  school  district,  the  governing 
body  of  a  charter  school  or  the  governing  body  of  a  university 
school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils,  as  applicable,  that  uses  the 
school service of the school service provider; and  
(b)  Any teacher who uses the school service.  
 
4.    A school service provider shall: 
 
 
(a)  Allow a pupil who is at least 18 years of age and the parent 
or  legal  guardian  of  any  pupil  to  review  personally  identifiable 
information concerning the pupil that is maintained by the school 
service provider; and 
 
(b)  Establish  a  process,  in  accordance  with  any  contract 
governing  the  activities  of  a  school  service  provider  and  which  is 
consistent  with  the  provisions  of  sections  1.5  to  8.5,  inclusive,  of 
this  act,  for  the  correction  of  such  information  upon  the  request 
of: 
 
 
legal guardian of any pupil; or 
(2)  The teacher of the pupil or the board of trustees of the 
 
school district in which the school that the pupil attends is located, 
the governing body of the charter school that the pupil attends or 
the  governing  body  of  the  university  school  for  profoundly  gifted 
pupils that the pupil attends, as applicable. 
  Sec.  6.    1.    Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  subsections  2 
and  5,  a  school  service  provider  may  collect,  use,  allow  access  to 
or transfer personally identifiable information concerning a pupil 
only: 
 
(a)  For  purposes  inherent  to  the  use  of  a  school  service  by  a 
teacher in a classroom or for the purposes authorized by the board 

(1)  A pupil who is at least 18 years of age or the parent or 

 

 - 

– 5 – 

2.    A  school  service  provider  may 

 
 
 
of trustees of the school district in which the school that the pupil 
attends  is  located,  the  governing  body  of  the  charter  school  that 
the pupil attends or the governing body of the university school for 
profoundly  gifted  pupils  that  the  pupil  attends,  as  applicable,  so 
long as it is authorized by federal and state law; 
(b)  If required by federal or state law;  
 
 
(c)  In  response  to  a  subpoena  issued  by  a  court  of  competent 
jurisdiction; 
(d)  To protect the safety of a user of the school service; or 
 
 
(e)  With the consent of any person required in a policy of the 
school district, charter school or university school for profoundly 
gifted  pupils,  as  applicable,  or,  if  none,  with  the  consent  of  the 
pupil, if the pupil is at least 18 years of age, or the parent or legal 
guardian of the pupil if the pupil is less than 18 years of age. 
transfer  personally 
 
identifiable information concerning a pupil to a third-party service 
provider  if  the  school  service  provider  provides  notice  to  any 
person designated in a policy of the school district, charter school 
or university school for profoundly gifted pupils, as applicable, to 
receive such notice or, if none, to the pupil, if the pupil is at least 
18 years of age, or the parent or guardian of the pupil and: 
 
(a)  Contractually  prohibits  the  third-party  service  provider 
from  using  any  such  information  for  any  purpose  other  than 
providing  the  contracted  school  services  to,  or  on  behalf  of,  the 
school service provider; 
 
(b)  Prohibits  the  third-party  service  provider  from  disclosing 
any personally identifiable information concerning a pupil unless 
the disclosure is authorized pursuant to subsection 1; and 
 
requirements of sections 1.5 to 8.5, inclusive, of this act. 
 
3.    A  school  service  provider  shall  delete  any  personally 
identifiable  information  concerning  a  pupil  that  is  collected  or 
maintained  by  the  school  service  provider  and  that  is  under  the 
control of the school service provider within a reasonable time not 
to  exceed  30  days  after  receiving  a  request  from  the  board  of 
trustees  of  the  school  district  in  which  the  school  that  the  pupil 
attends  is  located,  the  governing  body  of  the  charter  school  that 
the pupil attends or the governing body of the university school for 
profoundly gifted pupils that the pupil attends, as applicable. The 
board of trustees or the governing body, as applicable, must have a 
policy which allows a pupil who is at least 18 years of age or the 
parent or legal guardian of any pupil to review such information 
and request that such information about the pupil be deleted. The 

(c)  Requires the third-party service provider to comply with the 

 - 

– 6 – 

the  disclosure  of  personally 

5.    A school service provider shall not: 
(a)  Use  personally  identifiable  information  to  engage  in 

 
 
 
school  service  provider  shall  delete  such  information  upon  the 
request of the parent or legal guardian of a pupil if no such policy 
exists. 
4.    Any  agreement  entered  into  by  a  school  service  provider 
 
that  provides  for 
identifiable 
information must require that the person or governmental entity to 
whom the information will be disclosed abide by the requirements 
imposed pursuant to this section. 
 
 
targeted advertising. 
 
(b)  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  paragraph,  sell 
personally  identifiable  information  concerning  a  pupil.  A  school 
service  provider  may  transfer  personally  identifiable  information 
concerning  pupils  to  an  entity  that  purchases,  merges  with  or 
otherwise  acquires  the  school  service  and  the  acquiring  entity 
becomes  subject  to  the  requirements  of  sections  1.5  to  8.5, 
inclusive,  of  this  act  and  any  contractual  provisions  between  the 
school  service  provider  and  the  board  of  trustees  of  a  school 
district,  the  governing  body  of  a  charter  school  or  the  governing 
body  of  a  university  school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils,  as 
applicable, governing such information. 
 
(c)  Use personally identifiable information concerning a pupil 
to  create  a  profile  of  the  pupil  for  any  purpose  not  related  to  the 
instruction  of  the  pupil  provided  by  the  school  without  the  
consent  of  the  appropriate  person  described  in  paragraph  (e)  of 
subsection 1. 
 
(d)  Use personally identifiable information concerning a pupil 
in  a  manner  that  is  inconsistent  with  any  contract  governing  the 
activities  of  the  school  service  provider  for  the  school  service  in 
effect at the time the information is collected or in a manner that 
violates  any  of  the  provisions  of  sections  1.5  to  8.5,  inclusive,  of 
this act. 
 
(e)  Knowingly  retain,  without  the  consent  of  the  appropriate 
person  described  in  paragraph  (e)  of  subsection  1,  personally 
identifiable  information  concerning  a  pupil  beyond  the  period 
authorized  by  the  contract  governing  the  activities  of  the  school 
service provider. 
 
6.    This  section  does  not  prohibit  the  use  of  personally 
identifiable  information  concerning  a  pupil  that  is  collected  or 
maintained by a school service provider for the purposes of: 
 
education; 

(a)  Adaptive learning or providing personalized or customized 

 - 

for 

– 7 – 

(a)  Procedures 

(b)  Maintaining or improving the school service; 
(c)  Recommending  additional  content  or  services  within  a 

 
 
 
 
 
school service; 
(d)  Responding to a request for information by a pupil; 
 
(e)  Soliciting feedback regarding a school service; or 
 
(f)  Allowing  a  pupil  who  is  at  least  18  years  of  age  or  the 
 
parent  or  legal  guardian  of  any  pupil  to  download,  transfer,  or 
otherwise maintain data concerning a pupil.  
 
7.    A school service provider that violates the provisions of this 
section  is  subject  to  a  civil  penalty  in  an  amount  not  to  exceed 
$5,000  per  violation.  The  Attorney  General  may  recover  the 
penalty  in  a  civil  action  brought  in  the  name  of  the  State  of 
Nevada in any court of competent jurisdiction. 
  Sec.  7.    1.    A  school  service  provider  shall  establish  and 
carry  out  a  detailed  plan  for  the  security  of  any  data  concerning 
pupils  that  is  collected  or  maintained  by  the  school  service 
provider. The plan must include, without limitation: 
 
privacy, 
protecting 
confidentiality and integrity of personally identifiable information 
concerning a pupil; and 
 
safeguards to ensure the security of data concerning pupils. 
 
2.    A  school  service  provider  shall  ensure  that  any  successor 
entity understands that it is subject to the provisions of sections 1.5 
to 8.5, inclusive, of this act and agrees to abide by all privacy and 
security 
identifiable 
information  concerning  a  pupil  collected  and  maintained  by  the 
school service provider before allowing a successor entity to access 
such personally identifiable information.  
  Sec.  8.    1.    Each school district and the governing body of a 
charter school or a university school for profoundly gifted pupils, 
as  applicable,  shall  annually  provide  professional  development 
regarding  the  use  of  school  service  providers  and  the  security  of 
data concerning pupils. 
 
licensed  educational  personnel 
employed  by  a  school  district,  charter  school  or  university  school 
for  profoundly  gifted  pupils  shall  complete  the  professional 
development provided pursuant to subsection 1. 
  Sec.  8.3.    A  school  service  provider  may  use  and  disclose 
information  derived  from  personally  identifiable  information 
concerning  a  pupil  to  demonstrate  the  effectiveness  of  the 
products  or  services  of  the  school  service  provider,  including, 
without  limitation,  for  use  in  advertising  or  marketing  regarding 

(b)  Appropriate  administrative,  technological  and  physical 

2.    Teachers  and  other 

commitments 

personally 

security, 

related 

the 

to 

 - 

– 8 – 

(a)  Inefficiency; 
(b)  Immorality; 
(c)  Unprofessional conduct; 
(d)  Insubordination; 
(e)  Neglect of duty; 
(f)  Physical or mental incapacity; 
(g)  A  justifiable  decrease  in  the  number  of  positions  due  to 

 
 
 
the  school  service  so  long  as  the  information  is  aggregated  or  is 
presented in a manner which does not disclose the identity of the 
pupil about whom the information relates.  
  Sec.  8.5.    A  person  or  governmental  entity  may  not  waive  or 
modify any right, obligation or liability set forth in sections 1.5 to 
8.5, inclusive, of this act. Any condition, stipulation or provision in 
a contract which seeks to do so or which in any way conflicts with 
the provisions of sections 1.5 to 8.5, inclusive, of this act is against 
public policy and is void and unenforceable. 
  Sec.  9.    NRS 391.31297 is hereby amended to read as follows: 
391.31297    1.    A  teacher  may  be  suspended,  dismissed  or  not 
 
reemployed  and  an  administrator  may  be  demoted,  suspended, 
dismissed or not reemployed for the following reasons: 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
decreased enrollment or district reorganization; 
 
turpitude; 
 
 
 
board may prescribe; 
 
professional training and growth; 
 
(m)  Advocating  overthrow  of  the  Government  of  the  United 
States or of the State of Nevada by force, violence or other unlawful 
means, or the advocating or teaching of communism with the intent 
to indoctrinate pupils to subscribe to communistic philosophy; 
 
teacher’s license; 
 
requirements of this title;  
(p)  Dishonesty; 
 
 
(q)  [Breaches  in  the  security  or  confidentiality  of  the  questions 
and  answers  of  the  examinations  that  are  administered  pursuant  to 
NRS  389.550  or  389.805  and  the  college  and  career  readiness 
assessment administered pursuant to NRS 389.807. 

(i)  Inadequate performance; 
(j)  Evident unfitness for service; 
(k)  Failure  to  comply  with  such  reasonable  requirements  as  a 

(o)  Willful  neglect  or  failure  to  observe  and  carry  out  the 

(h)  Conviction  of  a  felony  or  of  a  crime  involving  moral 

(l)  Failure  to  show  normal  improvement  and  evidence  of 

(n)  Any cause which constitutes grounds for the revocation of a 

 - 

– 9 – 

(a)  Suspend, dismiss or fail to reemploy the teacher; or 
(b)  Demote,  suspend,  dismiss  or 

[(s)] (r)  An intentional violation of NRS 388.5265 or 388.527; 
[(t)] (s)  Gross misconduct; or 
[(u)]  (t)  An  intentional  failure  to  report  a  violation  of  NRS 

 
 
 
 
(r)]  Intentional failure to observe and carry out the requirements 
of  a  plan  to  ensure  the  security  of  examinations  and  assessments 
adopted pursuant to NRS 389.616 or 389.620; 
 
 
 
388.135 if the teacher or administrator witnessed the violation. 
 
2.    If  a  teacher  or  administrator  is  found,  through  an 
investigation  of  a  testing  irregularity,  to  have  willfully  breached 
the security or confidentiality of the questions and answers of the 
examinations  that  are  administered  pursuant  to  NRS  389.550  or 
389.805  or 
the  college  and  career  readiness  assessment 
administered pursuant to NRS 389.807, the board of trustees of a 
school  district,  governing  body  of  a  charter  school  or  governing 
body  of  a  university  school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils,  as 
applicable, shall: 
 
 
administrator. 
3.    In  determining  whether  the  professional  performance  of  a 
 
licensed employee is inadequate, consideration must be given to the 
regular  and  special  evaluation  reports  prepared  in  accordance  with 
the  policy  of  the  employing  school  district  and  to  any  written 
standards  of  performance  which  may  have  been  adopted  by  the 
board. 
 
[3.] 4.    As used in this section, “gross misconduct” includes any 
act  or  omission  that  is  in  wanton,  willful,  reckless  or  deliberate 
disregard  of  the  interests  of  a  school  or  school  district  or  a  pupil 
thereof. 
  Sec.  10.    NRS 391.313 is hereby amended to read as follows: 
 
charged  with 
an 
supervision  of  a  licensed  employee  believes  it  is  necessary  to 
admonish the employee for a reason that the administrator believes 
may lead to demotion or dismissal or may cause the employee not to 
be  reemployed  under  the  provisions  of  NRS  391.31297,  the 
administrator shall: 
 
(a)  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  subsection  3,  bring  the 
matter to the attention of the employee involved, in writing, stating 
the  reasons  for  the  admonition  and  that  it  may  lead  to  the 
employee’s demotion, dismissal or a refusal to reemploy him or her, 
and  make  a  reasonable  effort  to  assist  the  employee  to  correct 
whatever  appears  to  be  the  cause  for  the  employee’s  potential 

391.313    1.    Whenever 

to  reemploy 

administrator 

fail 

the 

 - 

– 10 – 

 
 
 
demotion, dismissal or a potential recommendation not to reemploy 
him or her; and 
 
(b)  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  NRS  391.314,  allow 
reasonable time for improvement, which must not exceed 3 months 
for the first admonition. 
(cid:172) The admonition must include a description of the deficiencies of 
the  teacher  and  the  action  that  is  necessary  to  correct  those 
deficiencies. 
 
2.    An  admonition  issued  to  a  licensed  employee  who,  within 
the time granted for improvement, has met the standards set for the 
employee  by  the  administrator  who  issued  the  admonition  must  be 
removed  from  the  records  of  the  employee  together  with  all 
notations and indications of its having been issued. The admonition 
must be removed from the records of the employee not later than 3 
years after it is issued. 
 
3.    An  administrator  need  not  admonish  an  employee  pursuant 
to  paragraph  (a)  of  subsection  1  if  his  or  her  employment  will  be 
terminated pursuant to NRS 391.3197. 
 
4.    A licensed employee is subject to immediate dismissal or a 
refusal  to  reemploy  according  to  the  procedures  provided  in  NRS 
391.311 to 391.3197, inclusive, without the admonition required by 
this section, on grounds contained in paragraphs (b), (f), (g), (h), (p) 
and [(t)] (s) of subsection 1 of NRS 391.31297. 
  Sec.  11.    NRS 391.3161 is hereby amended to read as follows: 
 
391.3161    1.    Each request for the appointment of a person to 
serve as a hearing officer must be submitted to the Superintendent of 
Public Instruction. 
 
2.    Within  10  days  after  receipt  of  such  a  request,  the 
Superintendent of Public Instruction shall request that the Hearings 
Division  of  the  Department  of  Administration  appoint  a  hearing 
officer. 
 
3.    The State Board shall prescribe the procedures for exercising 
challenges  to  a  hearing  officer,  including,  without  limitation,  the 
number  of  challenges  that  may  be  exercised  and  the  time  limits  in 
which the challenges must be exercised. 
 
4.    A  hearing  officer  shall  conduct  hearings  in  cases  of 
demotion,  dismissal  or  a  refusal  to  reemploy  based  on  the  grounds 
contained in [subsection] subsections 1 and 2 of NRS 391.31297. 
 
5.    This  section  does  not  preclude  the  employee  and  the 
superintendent from mutually selecting an attorney who is a resident 
of  this  State,  an  arbitrator  provided  by  the  American  Arbitration 
Association  or  a  representative  of  an  agency  or  organization  that 

 - 

– 11 – 

 
 
 
provides alternative dispute resolution services to serve as a hearing 
officer to conduct a particular hearing. 
  Sec.  12.    The provisions of sections 1.5 to 8.5, inclusive, of this 
act: 
 
1.    Apply  to  any  agreement  entered  into,  extended  or  renewed 
on or after July 1, 2015, and any provision of the agreement that is 
in conflict with those sections is void. 
 
July 1, 2015.  
  Sec.  13.    The  provisions  of  NRS  354.599  do  not  apply  to  any 
additional  expenses  of  a  local  government  that  are  related  to  the 
provisions of this act. 
  Sec.  14.    This act becomes effective on July 1, 2015. 

2.    Apply on July 1, 2018, to any agreement entered into before 

 

 
20  ~~~~~  15
 

 - 


