 

Senate Bill No. 403–Senator Denis 
 
Joint Sponsor: Assemblywoman Krasner 
 
CHAPTER.......... 
 
AN  ACT  relating  to  education;  requiring  each  public  and  private 
school to provide certain information to a pupil or the parent 
or legal guardian of a pupil before providing technology to a 
pupil  or  allowing  a  pupil  to  use  a  school  service;  revising 
provisions relating to school service providers; and providing 
other matters properly relating thereto. 

Legislative Counsel’s Digest: 
 
Existing law generally controls the manner in which a school service provider 
may  use  the  personally  identifiable  information  of  a  pupil  and  prohibits  a  school 
service  provider  from  engaging  in  targeted  advertising.  (NRS  388.292)  “School 
service  provider”  is  defined  in  existing  law  as  a  provider  of  certain  Internet 
services, online services or mobile applications. (NRS 388.283, 388.284) Section 1 
of  this  bill  requires  a  public  school,  including  a  charter  school  and  a  university 
school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils,  to  post  certain  information  on  the  Internet 
website  of  the  school  before  a  pupil  uses  a  school  service  of  a  school  service 
provider. Such information must include a description of the laws governing school 
service providers, a list of the school service providers for the school, confirmation 
that each school service provider has a plan for the security of data established by 
the school service provider, any other actions taken by the public school, the school 
district, or the applicable governing body to protect the data of the pupils and the 
manner  in  which  a  person  may  report  suspicious  activity  related  to  the  use  of  a 
school service. Each school must also communicate the manner in which to locate 
the information at the beginning of each school year. 
 
Section 2 of this bill revises the prohibition on targeted advertising by a school 
service provider to prohibit the school service provider from engaging in targeted 
advertising within its school service or on any other Internet website, online service 
or mobile application if the targeted advertising is based upon information gathered 
from its school service. Section 2 also authorizes a school service provider to use 
the personally identifiable information of a pupil to perform certain research which 
is required or authorized by federal or state law. Section 3 of this bill authorizes a 
school  service  provider  to  use  aggregated,  deidentified  information  derived  from 
the  personally  identifiable  information  of  pupils  to  develop  and  improve  the 
products of the school service provider. 
 
Existing  law  requires  a  school  service  provider  to  establish  a  plan  for  the 
security of any data concerning pupils that is collected or maintained by the school 
service provider. (NRS 388.293) Section 2.5 of this bill requires the school service 
provider  to  inform  a  school  district,  charter  school  or  university  school  for 
profoundly gifted pupils or a private school if there is a breach of the security of the 
system data concerning pupils in violation of the plan. Section 2.5 further requires 
a school that receives such notice to provide the notice to the pupils and the parents 
and legal guardians of pupils who are less than 18 years of age. 
 
 

Sections 5-10 of this bill establish similar provisions for private schools. 

EXPLANATION – Matter in bolded italics is new; matter between brackets [omitted material] is material to be omitted. 

 

 

- 

80th Session (2019) 

 
 
 

– 2 – 

THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEVADA, REPRESENTED IN 
SENATE AND ASSEMBLY, DO ENACT AS FOLLOWS: 

(a)  Summarizes the laws governing school service providers set 

 
  Section  1.    Chapter 388 of NRS is hereby amended by adding 
thereto a new section to read as follows: 
 
1.    Before  a  public  school,  including,  without  limitation,  a 
charter  school  and  a  university  school  for  profoundly  gifted 
pupils, allows a pupil to use any school service or provides a pupil 
with  any  technology,  the  public  school  must  post  on  the  Internet 
website of the public school information that: 
 
forth in this section and NRS 388.281 to 388.296, inclusive; 
 
(b)  Lists each school service provider for the school;  
(c)  Confirms  that  each  such  school  service  provider  for  the 
 
school has created a plan for the security of any data concerning 
pupils,  including,  without  limitation,  covered  information  and 
personally identifiable information pursuant to NRS 388.293 and 
informs about the circumstances under which notification will be 
provided pursuant to that section if a breach of the security of the 
system data is discovered; 
 
(d)  Describes any other actions taken by the public school, the 
school  district  or  the  governing  body  of  the  charter  school  or 
university  school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils,  as  applicable,  to 
protect  the  security  of  any  data  collected  by  a  school  service 
provider,  including,  without  limitation,  covered  information  and 
personally identifiable information, concerning pupils; and 
(e)  Describes  the  manner  in  which  a  pupil  or  the  parent  or 
 
legal  guardian  of  a  pupil  may  report  any  suspicious  activity 
relating to the use of a school service by a pupil. 
 
2.    At  the  beginning of  each  school  year,  each  public  school, 
including,  without  limitation,  a  charter  school  and  a  university 
school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils,  shall  communicate  to  the 
pupils enrolled at the school and the parents and legal guardians 
of  such  pupils  the  availability  of  the  information  described  in 
subsection 1 and the manner in which to locate the information. 
3.    As used in this section: 
 
 
(a)  “Covered  information”  means  the  personally  identifiable 
information  of  a  pupil  or  any  information  that  is  linked  to  the 
personally identifiable information of a pupil which is: 
 
(1)  Created by or provided to a school service provider by a 
pupil or the parent or legal guardian of a pupil through the use of 
a school service; 

 

 

- 

80th Session (2019) 

 

 

– 3 – 

(c)  “School  service”  has  the  meaning  ascribed  to  it  in  

(3)  Gathered  by  a  school  service  provider  from  any  other 

(d)  “School service provider” has the meaning ascribed to it in 

(b)  “Personally  identifiable  information”  has  the  meaning 

 
 
 
 
(2)  Created  by  or  provided  to  a  school  service  provider  by 
an employee of a public school, a school district or the governing 
body of a charter school; or 
 
source and associated with the identity of a pupil. 
 
ascribed to it in 34 C.F.R. § 99.3. 
 
NRS 388.283. 
 
NRS 388.284. 
  Sec.  2.    NRS 388.292 is hereby amended to read as follows: 
388.292    1.    Except as otherwise provided in subsections 2 and 
 
5,  a  school  service  provider  may  collect,  use,  allow  access  to  or 
transfer personally identifiable information concerning a pupil only: 
 
(a)  For  purposes  inherent  to  the  use  of  a  school  service  by  a 
teacher in a classroom or for the purposes authorized by the board of 
trustees  of  the  school  district  in  which  the  school  that  the  pupil 
attends is located, the governing body of the charter school that the 
pupil  attends  or  the  governing  body  of  the  university  school  for 
profoundly gifted pupils that the pupil attends, as applicable, so long 
as it is authorized by federal and state law; 
(b)  If required by federal or state law;  
 
 
(c)  In  response  to  a  subpoena  issued  by  a  court  of  competent 
jurisdiction; 
(d)  To protect the safety of a user of the school service; or 
 
(e)  With  the  consent  of  any  person  required  in  a  policy  of  the 
 
school  district,  charter  school  or  university  school  for  profoundly 
gifted pupils, as applicable, or, if none, with the consent of the pupil, 
if the pupil is at least 18 years of age, or the parent or legal guardian 
of the pupil if the pupil is less than 18 years of age. 
transfer  personally 
2.    A  school  service  provider  may 
 
identifiable  information  concerning  a  pupil  to  a  third-party  service 
provider if the school service provider provides notice to any person 
designated  in  a  policy  of  the  school  district,  charter  school  or 
university  school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils,  as  applicable,  to 
receive such notice or, if none, to the pupil, if the pupil is at least 18 
years of age, or the parent or guardian of the pupil and: 
 
(a)  Contractually prohibits the third-party service provider from 
using any such information for any purpose other than providing the 
contracted  school  services  to,  or  on  behalf  of,  the  school  service 
provider; 

 

- 

80th Session (2019) 

– 4 – 

 
 
 
 
(b)  Prohibits the third-party service provider from disclosing any 
personally  identifiable  information  concerning  a  pupil  unless  the 
disclosure is authorized pursuant to subsection 1; and 
(c)  Requires the third-party service provider to comply with the 
 
requirements of NRS 388.281 to 388.296, inclusive [.] , and section 
1 of this act. 
 
3.    A  school  service  provider  shall  delete  any  personally 
identifiable  information  concerning  a  pupil  that  is  collected  or 
maintained  by  the  school  service  provider  and  that  is  under  the 
control of the school service provider within a reasonable time not 
to  exceed  30  days  after  receiving  a  request  from  the  board  of 
trustees  of  the  school  district  in  which  the  school  that  the  pupil 
attends is located, the governing body of the charter school that the 
pupil  attends  or  the  governing  body  of  the  university  school  for 
profoundly  gifted  pupils  that  the  pupil  attends,  as  applicable.  The 
board of trustees or the governing body, as applicable, must have a 
policy  which  allows  a  pupil  who  is  at  least  18  years  of  age  or  the 
parent or legal guardian of any pupil to review such information and 
request that such information about the pupil be deleted. The school 
service  provider  shall  delete  such  information  upon  the  request  of 
the parent or legal guardian of a pupil if no such policy exists. 
4.    Any agreement entered into by a school service provider that 
 
provides  for  the  disclosure  of  personally  identifiable  information 
must  require  that  the  person  or  governmental  entity  to  whom  the 
information  will  be  disclosed  abide  by  the  requirements  imposed 
pursuant to this section. 
5.    A school service provider shall not: 
 
 
(a)  Use personally identifiable information to engage in targeted 
advertising  [.]  within  the  school  service  or  on  any  other  Internet 
website,  online  service  or  mobile  application  if  the  targeted 
advertising  is  based  upon  any  information  acquired  from  use  of 
the school service. 
 
(b)  Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  paragraph,  sell 
personally  identifiable  information  concerning  a  pupil.  A  school 
service  provider  may  transfer  personally  identifiable  information 
concerning  pupils  to  an  entity  that  purchases,  merges  with  or 
otherwise  acquires  the  school  service  and  the  acquiring  entity 
becomes  subject  to  the  requirements  of  NRS  388.281  to  388.296, 
inclusive, and section 1 of this act, and any contractual provisions 
between  the  school  service  provider  and  the  board  of  trustees  of  a 
school  district,  the  governing  body  of  a  charter  school  or  the 
governing body of a university school for profoundly gifted pupils, 
as applicable, governing such information. 

 

- 

80th Session (2019) 

– 5 – 

(a)  Adaptive  learning  or  providing  personalized  or  customized 

 
 
 
 
(c)  Use personally identifiable information concerning a pupil to 
create  a  profile  of  the  pupil  for  any  purpose  not  related  to  the 
instruction of the pupil provided by the school without the consent 
of the appropriate person described in paragraph (e) of subsection 1. 
 
(d)  Use personally identifiable information concerning a pupil in 
a  manner  that  is  inconsistent  with  any  contract  governing  the 
activities  of  the  school  service  provider  for  the  school  service  in 
effect  at  the  time  the  information  is  collected  or  in  a  manner  that 
violates any of the provisions of NRS 388.281 to 388.296, inclusive 
[.] , and section 1 of this act. 
 
(e)  Knowingly  retain,  without  the  consent  of  the  appropriate 
person  described  in  paragraph  (e)  of  subsection  1,  personally 
identifiable  information  concerning  a  pupil  beyond  the  period 
authorized  by  the  contract  governing  the  activities  of  the  school 
service provider. 
 
6.    This  section  does  not  prohibit  the  use  of  personally 
identifiable  information  concerning  a  pupil  that  is  collected  or 
maintained by a school service provider for the purposes of: 
 
education; 
 
 
school service; 
 
 
 
(1)  Is required by federal or state law; or 
 
 
(2)  Is authorized by federal or state law, is performed under 
the direction of a public school, school district or the Department 
and  does  not  use  any  personally 
information 
concerning  a  pupil  for  any  purpose  relating  to  advertising  or 
creating  a  profile  of  the  pupil  for  any  purpose  not  related  to  the 
instruction of the pupil; or 
 
(g)  Allowing a pupil who is at least 18 years of age or the parent 
or  legal  guardian  of  any  pupil  to  download,  transfer,  or  otherwise 
maintain data concerning a pupil.  
 
7.    A school service provider that violates the provisions of this 
section  is  subject  to  a  civil  penalty  in  an  amount  not  to  exceed 
$5,000 per violation. The Attorney General may recover the penalty 
in a civil action brought in the name of the State of Nevada in any 
court of competent jurisdiction. 

(d)  Responding to a request for information by a pupil; 
(e)  Soliciting feedback regarding a school service; [or] 
(f)  Performing research which: 
 
 

(b)  Maintaining or improving the school service; 
(c)  Recommending  additional  content  or  services  within  a 

identifiable 

 

- 

80th Session (2019) 

for 

the 

– 6 – 

security, 

(a)  Procedures 

technological  and  physical 

(b)  Appropriate  administrative, 

 
 
 
  Sec.  2.5.    NRS 388.293 is hereby amended to read as follows: 
 
388.293    1.    A school service provider shall establish and carry 
out a detailed plan for the security of any data concerning pupils that 
is collected or maintained by the school service provider. The plan 
must include, without limitation: 
 
privacy, 
protecting 
confidentiality  and  integrity  of  personally  identifiable  information 
concerning a pupil; and 
 
safeguards to ensure the security of data concerning pupils. 
 
2.    A  school  service  provider  shall  ensure  that  any  successor 
entity  understands  that  it  is  subject  to  the  provisions  of  NRS 
388.281 to 388.296, inclusive, and section 1 of this act and agrees 
to  abide  by  all  privacy  and  security  commitments  related  to 
personally identifiable information concerning a pupil collected and 
maintained  by  the  school  service  provider  before  allowing  a 
successor entity to access such personally identifiable information. 
3.    A  school  service  provider  shall  provide  notice  to  a  school 
 
district,  charter  school  or  university  school  for  profoundly  gifted 
pupils, as applicable, or a private school pursuant to section 10 of 
this  act,  of  any  breach  of  the  security  of  the  system  data  in 
violation of the plan and any actions taken or being taken by the 
school service provider to address the breach. The notice must be 
provided as soon as practicable and without unreasonable delay.  
 
4.    A  school  district,  charter  school,  university  school  for 
profoundly  gifted  pupils  or  private  school  that  receives  a  notice 
pursuant  to  subsection  3  shall  provide  the  notice  to  each  pupil 
affected by the breach or, if a pupil is less than 18 years of age, the 
parent or legal guardian of the pupil. The notice must be provided 
as soon as practicable and without unreasonable delay. 
 
5.    As  used  in  this  section,  “breach  of  the  security  of  the 
system  data”  means  unauthorized  acquisition  of  computerized 
data  that  materially  compromises  the  security,  confidentiality  or 
integrity of data concerning pupils that is collected or maintained 
by the school service provider. The term does not include the good 
faith  acquisition  of  data  concerning  pupils  by  an  employee  or 
agent of the school service provider for a legitimate purpose of the 
school  service  provider,  so  long  as  the  data  is  not  used  for  a 
purpose  unrelated  to  the  school  service  provider  or  subject  to 
further unauthorized disclosure. 
  Sec.  3.    NRS 388.295 is hereby amended to read as follows: 
 
information  derived  from  personally 

388.295    A  school  service  provider  may  use  and  disclose 
information 

identifiable 

 

- 

80th Session (2019) 

– 7 – 

information”  means 

 
 
 
concerning a pupil to demonstrate the effectiveness of the products 
or  services  of  the  school  service  provider,  including,  without 
limitation, for use in advertising or marketing regarding the school 
service , and to develop and improve a school service or any other 
Internet website, online service or mobile application of the school 
service  provider  so  long  as  the  information  is  aggregated  or  is 
presented  in  a  manner  which  does  not  disclose  the  identity  of  the 
pupil about whom the information relates. 
  Sec.  4.    Chapter  394  of  NRS  is  hereby  amended  by  adding 
thereto the provisions set forth as sections 5 to 10, inclusive, of this 
act. 
  Sec.  5.    As  used  in  sections  5  to  10,  inclusive,  of  this  act, 
unless the context otherwise requires, the words and terms defined 
in sections 6 to 9, inclusive, of this act have the meanings ascribed 
to them in those sections. 
  Sec.  6.    “Covered 
the  personally 
identifiable  information  of  a  pupil  or  any  information  that  is 
linked to the personally identifiable information of a pupil which 
is: 
 
1.    Created  by  or  provided  to  a  school  service  provider  by  a 
pupil or the parent or legal guardian of a pupil through the use of 
a school service; 
 
2.    Created  by  or  provided  to  a  school  service  provider  by  an 
employee  of  a  private  school  or  the  governing  body  of  a  private 
school; or 
 
source and associated with the identity of a pupil. 
  Sec.  7.    “Personally 
meaning ascribed to it in 34 C.F.R. § 99.3. 
  Sec.  8.    1.    “School  service”  means  an  Internet  website, 
online service or mobile application that: 
 
concerning a pupil; 
(b)  Is used primarily for educational purposes; and 
 
 
(c)  Is designed and marketed for use in private schools and is 
used at the direction of teachers and other educational personnel. 
2.    The term does not include: 
 
 
(a)  An  Internet  website,  online  service  or  mobile  application 
that is designed or marketed for use by a general audience, even if 
the school service is also marketed to private schools; 
(b)  An  internal  database,  system  or  program  maintained  or 
 
operated  by  a  private  school  or  the  governing  body  of  a  private 
school; 

(a)  Collects  or  maintains  personally  identifiable  information 

3.    Gathered  by  a  school  service  provider  from  any  other 

information”  has 

identifiable 

the 

 

- 

80th Session (2019) 

 

 

– 8 – 

(2)  Entered  into  a  contract  with  the  governing  body  of  a 

(c)  A school service for which a school service provider has: 
 

 
 
 
 
 
(1)  Been  designated  by  the  governing  body  of  a  private 
school  as  a  school  official  pursuant  to  the  Family  Educational 
Rights and Privacy Act of 1974, 20 U.S.C. § 1232g; 
 
private school; and  
 
(3)  Agreed to comply with and be subject to the provisions 
of  the  Family  Educational  Rights  and  Privacy  Act  of  1974,  20 
U.S.C. § 1232g, relating to personally identifiable information; or 
 
(d)  Any  instructional  programs  purchased  by  the  governing 
body of a private school. 
  Sec.  9.    “School  service  provider”  means  a  person  that 
operates a school service, to the extent the provider is operating in 
that capacity. 
  Sec.  10.    1.    Before a private school allows a pupil to use any 
school service or provides a pupil with any technology, the private 
school must post on the Internet website of the school information 
that: 
(a)  Summarizes the laws governing school service providers; 
 
 
(b)  Lists  each  school  service  provider  for  the  private  school 
and  the  plan  for  the  security  of  any  data  concerning  pupils, 
including, without limitation, covered information and personally 
identifiable  information,  that  is  established  by  the  school  service 
provider; 
 
(c)  Describes  any  other actions taken  by the private  school to 
protect  the  security  of  any  data  collected  by  a  school  service 
provider,  including,  without  limitation,  covered  information  and 
personally identifiable information, concerning pupils; and 
 
(d)  Describes  the  manner  in  which  a  pupil  or  the  parent  or 
legal  guardian  of  a  pupil  may  report  any  suspicious  activity 
relating to the use of a school service by a pupil. 
2.    At the beginning of each school year, each private school 
 
shall  communicate  to  the  pupils  enrolled  at  the  school  and  the 
parents and legal guardians of such pupils the availability of the 
information described in subsection 1 and the manner in which to 
locate the information. 
  Sec.  11.    This act becomes effective upon passage and approval 
for  the  purpose  of  adopting  regulations  and  performing  any  other 
administrative tasks that are necessary to carry out the provisions of 
this act and on July 1, 2020, for all other purposes. 

 
20  ~~~~~  19 

 

- 

80th Session (2019) 


