 

Assembly Bill No. 221–Assemblyman Kirner 
 
CHAPTER.......... 
 
AN ACT relating to education; making various changes concerning 
policies  governing  data  which  includes  information  about 
pupils  that  is  maintained  by  the  Department  of  Education; 
require  disclosure  of 
requiring  certain  contracts 
personally  identifiable  information  concerning  pupils  to 
include  provisions  concerning 
the  protection  of  such 
information;  requiring  the  Department  to  adopt  a  data 
security  plan  for  collecting,  maintaining  and  transferring  
data  concerning  pupils;  requiring  the  annual  report  of  the 
state  of  public  education  to  include  certain  information 
concerning  the  collection,  maintenance  and  transfer  of  
data  concerning  pupils;  requiring  certain  entities  to  adopt 
information 
policies  concerning  data  which 
concerning  pupils;  and  providing  other  matters  properly 
relating thereto. 

includes 

that 

Legislative Counsel’s Digest: 
Existing  law  provides  for  an  automated  system  of  accountability  information 
 
for  the  State  of  Nevada.  (NRS  386.650)  Section  2  of  this  bill  requires  the 
Department  of  Education  to  establish,  publish  and  make  publicly  available  on  its 
Internet  website:  (1)  an  index  of  data  elements  that  the  Department  maintains  or 
proposes  to  include  in  the  automated  system  of  accountability  information  for 
Nevada;  (2)  an  explanation  of  the  index  of  data  elements  that  must  include  a 
description  of  each  data  element  and  the  reason  for  collecting  or  proposing  to 
collect such an element; and (3) the third-party service providers, organizations and 
agencies  that  have  access  to  the  data  about  individual  pupils  maintained  by  the 
Department  in  this  system.  Section  2  also  requires  the  Department  to  update  this 
information at least once each biennium.  
Existing law requires a public school to comply with federal law governing: (1) 
 
access  to  the  education  records  of  a  pupil;  (2)  requesting  an  amendment  or  other 
change to the education records of a pupil; and (3) confidentiality of the education 
records of a pupil. (NRS 392.029) Section 3 of this bill requires the Department to 
adopt  any  policies  and  procedures  necessary  to  ensure  the  privacy  of  data  about 
pupils which are consistent with relevant state and federal privacy laws. Section 3 
also requires the Department to review these policies and procedures at least once 
each biennium and revise them as necessary.  
 
Section  4  of  this  bill  requires  any  contract  entered  into  by  the  Department,  a 
school district, a charter school, a university school for profoundly gifted pupils or 
any  public  school  that  provides  for  the  disclosure  of  data  that  includes  any 
personally identifiable information of a pupil to include: (1) express provisions to 
protect  the  privacy  and  security  of  such  information;  and  (2)  a  penalty  for 
intentional or grossly negligent noncompliance with the terms of the contract.  
 
Section 5 of this bill requires the Department, in consultation with each school 
district,  the  sponsor  of  a  charter  school  and  the  governing  body  of  a  university 
school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils  to  adopt  a  detailed  plan  to  provide  for  the 
security  of  data  that  is  collected,  maintained  and  transferred  by  the  Department. 
Section 5 also requires the board of trustees of each school district, the governing 

 - 

– 2 – 

 
 
 
body  of  a  charter  school  and  the  governing  body  of  a  university  school  for 
profoundly gifted pupils to carry out this plan.  
 
Existing  law  requires  the  Department,  in  conjunction  with  the  State  Board  of 
Education, to prepare an annual report of the state of public education in this State. 
(NRS 385.230) Section 5 requires each school district, sponsor of a charter school 
and  university  school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils  to  prepare  and  submit  to  the 
Department an annual report concerning any significant changes to the manner in 
which the school district, charter school or university school for profoundly gifted 
pupils  collects,  maintains  or  transfers  data  concerning  pupils  for  inclusion  in  the 
annual report prepared by the Department. Section 6 of this bill requires the annual 
report  to  include:  (1)  a  description  of  any  significant  changes  made  to  the 
collection, maintenance or transfer of data concerning pupils; and (2) any new data 
elements  proposed  for  inclusion  in  the  automated  system  of  accountability 
information for Nevada. 
 
Section 8 of this bill requires the board of trustees of each school district, the 
governing body of a charter school and the governing body of a university school 
for  profoundly  gifted  pupils  to  establish,  publish  and  make  publicly  available  an 
index  of  categories  of  data  transferred  to  the  automated  system  of  accountability 
information for Nevada. Section 8 also requires the board of trustees of each school 
district,  the  governing  body  of  a  charter  school  and  the  governing  body  of  a 
university  school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils  to  establish,  publish  and  make 
publicly available a list of third-party service providers, organizations and agencies 
that have access to such information.  
Section 9 of this bill requires the board of trustees of each school district, the 
 
governing body of a charter school and the governing body of a university school 
for profoundly gifted pupils to adopt policies and procedures governing: (1) the use 
by teachers and other educational personnel of certain software; and (2) the manner 
in which data concerning pupils may be provided to any person when the provision 
of such data is not expressly authorized by the board of trustees or the governing 
body, as applicable. 
 

EXPLANATION – Matter in bolded italics is new; matter between brackets [omitted material] is material to be omitted. 

 
 

THE PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEVADA, REPRESENTED IN 
SENATE AND ASSEMBLY, DO ENACT AS FOLLOWS: 

 
  Section  1.    Chapter 385 of NRS is hereby amended by adding 
thereto the provisions set forth as sections 2 to 5, inclusive, of this 
act. 
  Sec.  2.    1.    The  Department  shall  establish,  publish  and 
make publicly available on its Internet website: 
 
(a)  An  index  of  the  data  elements  that  the  Department 
maintains  or  proposes  to  include  in  the  automated  system  of 
accountability  information  for  Nevada  established  pursuant  to 
NRS 386.650, including, without limitation: 
 
 
 
 
group. 

(1)  Data concerning individual pupils; and 
(2)  Aggregated  data  concerning  pupils  within  a  defined 

 - 

 

 

 

– 3 – 

(2)  The  reason  for  collecting  or  proposing  to  collect  each 

2.    At least once each biennium, the Department shall update 

 
 
 
 
(b)  An  explanation  of  the  index  of  data  elements  established 
pursuant to paragraph (a), which must include, without limitation: 
 
(1)  A  description  of  each  data  element  concerning  each 
individual pupil; 
 
data element concerning each individual pupil; and 
 
(3)  The  third-party  service  providers,  organizations  and 
agencies that have access to the data concerning individual pupils 
maintained  by  the  Department  in  the  automated  system  of 
accountability  information  for  Nevada  established  pursuant  to 
NRS 386.650. 
 
the information described in subsection 1. 
  Sec.  3.    1.    The  Department  shall  adopt  any  policies  and 
procedures  necessary  to  ensure  the  privacy  of  data  concerning 
pupils which are consistent with relevant state and federal privacy 
laws, including, without limitation, the Family Educational Rights 
and Privacy Act of 1974, 20 U.S.C. § 1232g, and any regulations 
adopted pursuant thereto. 
2.    At least once each biennium, the Department shall review 
 
and  revise  as  necessary  the  policies  and  procedures  described  in 
subsection 1. 
  Sec.  4.    1.    Any  contract  entered  into  by  the  Department,  a 
school district, a sponsor of a charter school, the governing body 
of  a  university  school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils  or  any  public 
school  that  provides  for  the  disclosure  of  data  that  includes  any 
personally  identifiable  information  of  a  pupil  must  include, 
without limitation: 
 
the personally identifiable information; and  
 
grossly  negligent 
or 
intentional 
noncompliance  with  the  terms  of  the  contract,  including,  without 
limitation,  provisions  for  termination  of  the  contract  and  for  the 
payment of monetary damages for any breach of the terms of the 
contract. 
 
information” has the meaning ascribed to it in 34 C.F.R. § 99.3. 
in  consultation  with  each 
  Sec.  5.    1.    The  Department, 
school  district,  the  sponsor  of  each  charter  school  and  the 
governing body of a university school for profoundly gifted pupils 
shall adopt a detailed plan to provide for the security of any data 
concerning pupils that is collected, maintained and transferred by 
the Department. 

(a)  Provisions specifically to protect the privacy and security of 

section,  “personally 

2.    As  used 

identifiable 

penalty 

(b)  A 

this 

for 

in 

 - 

– 4 – 

(a)  An analysis of each annual report of accountability prepared 

 
 
 
 
2.    The board of trustees of each school district, the governing 
body  of  a  charter  school  and  the  governing  body  of  a  university 
school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils  shall  comply  with  and  carry 
out the data security plan adopted by the Department pursuant to 
subsection 1.  
3.    Each  school  district,  sponsor  of  a  charter  school  and 
 
university  school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils  shall  prepare  and 
submit  to  the  Department  an  annual  report  concerning  any 
significant  changes  to  the  manner  in  which  the  school  district, 
charter  school  or  university  school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils 
collects,  maintains  or  transfers  data  concerning  pupils  for 
inclusion  in  the  annual  report  prepared  by  the  Department 
pursuant to NRS 385.230. 
  Sec.  6.    NRS 385.230 is hereby amended to read as follows: 
385.230    1.    The  Department  shall,  in  conjunction  with  the 
 
State  Board,  prepare  an  annual  report  of  the  state  of  public 
education in this State. The report must include, without limitation: 
 
by the State Board pursuant to NRS 385.3572; 
 
State; 
 
(c)  A  description  of  the  most  recent  vision  and  mission 
statements  of  the  State  Board  and  the  Department,  including, 
without  limitation,  the  progress  made  by  the  State  Board  and 
Department in achieving those visions and missions; 
 
(d)  A description of the goals and benchmarks for improving the 
academic  achievement  of  pupils  which  are  included  in  the  plan  to 
improve the achievement of pupils required by NRS 385.3593; 
(e)  A  description  of  any  significant  changes  made  to  the 
 
collection,  maintenance  or  transfer  of  data  concerning  pupils  by 
the Department, a school district, a sponsor of a charter school or 
a university school for profoundly gifted pupils; 
(f)  Any new  data elements, including, without limitation, data 
 
about individual pupils and aggregated data about pupils within a 
defined group, proposed for inclusion in the automated system of 
accountability  information  for  Nevada  established  pursuant  to 
NRS 386.650;  
(g)  An analysis of the progress the public schools have made in 
 
the  previous  year  toward  achieving  the  goals  and  benchmarks  for 
improving the academic achievement of pupils;  
 
[(f)] (h)  An analysis of whether the standards and examinations 
adopted by the State Board adequately prepare pupils for success in 

(b)  An  update  on  the  status  of  K-12  public  education  in  this 

 - 

 

 

– 5 – 

(2)  Pupils from major racial and ethnic groups, as defined by 

(1)  Pupils  who  are  economically  disadvantaged,  as  defined 

[(g)]  (i)  An  analysis  of  the  extent  to  which  school  districts  and 

 
 
 
postsecondary  educational  institutions  and  in  career  and  workforce 
readiness; 
 
charter schools recruit and retain effective teachers and principals; 
 
[(h)]  (j)  An  analysis  of  the  ability  of  the  automated  system  of 
accountability information for Nevada established pursuant to NRS 
386.650 to link the achievement of pupils to the performance of the 
individual teachers assigned to those pupils and to the principals of 
the schools in which the pupils are enrolled; 
 
[(i)]  (k)  An  analysis  of  the  extent  to  which  the  lowest 
performing public schools have improved the academic achievement 
of pupils enrolled in those schools; 
 
[(j)]  (l)  A  summary  of  the  innovative  educational  programs 
implemented by public schools which have demonstrated the ability 
to improve the academic achievement of pupils, including, without 
limitation: 
 
by the State Board; 
 
the State Board;  
 
 
 
Board; and 
 
[(k)]  (m)  A  description  of  any  plan  of  corrective  action 
requested by the Superintendent of Public Instruction from the board 
of  trustees  of  a  school  district  or  the  governing  body  of  a  charter 
school and the status of that plan. 
2.    In  odd-numbered  years,  the  Superintendent  of  Public 
 
Instruction shall present the report prepared pursuant to subsection 1 
in  person  to  the  Governor  and  each  standing  committee  of  the 
Legislature  with  primary  jurisdiction  over  matters  relating  to  K-12 
public  education  at  the  beginning  of  each  regular  session  of  the 
Legislature. 
 
3.    In  even-numbered  years,  the  Superintendent  of  Public 
Instruction shall, on or before January 31, submit a written copy of 
the report prepared pursuant to subsection 1 to the Governor and to 
the Legislative Committee on Education. 
  Sec.  7.    Chapter  386  of  NRS  is  hereby  amended  by  adding 
thereto the provisions set forth as sections 8 and 9 of this act. 
  Sec.  8.    The  board  of  trustees  of  each  school  district,  the 
governing  body  of  a  charter  school  and  the  governing  body  of  a 

(3)  Pupils with disabilities; 
(4)  Pupils who are limited English proficient; and 
(5)  Pupils who are migratory children, as defined by the State 

 
 
 

 - 

– 6 – 

1.    An 

index  of  categories  of  data, 

 
 
 
university  school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils  shall  establish, 
publish and make publicly available: 
 
including,  without 
limitation, data concerning individual pupils and aggregated data 
concerning  pupils  within  a  defined  group  transferred  to  the 
automated  system  of  accountability  information  for  Nevada 
established pursuant to NRS 386.650; and 
 
2.    A  list  of  the  third-party  service  providers,  organizations 
and agencies that have access to data concerning individual pupils 
maintained  by  the  Department  in  the  automated  system  of 
accountability  information  for  Nevada  established  pursuant  to 
NRS 386.650.  
  Sec.  9.    The  board  of  trustees  of  each  school  district,  the 
governing  body  of  a  charter  school  and  the  governing  body  of  a 
university  school  for  profoundly  gifted  pupils  shall  adopt policies 
and procedures governing: 
 
1.    The  use  by  teachers  and  other  educational  personnel  of 
software offered to users free of charge for basic services, but that 
requires  users  to  pay  for  any  additional  or  premium  proprietary 
features, functionality or virtual goods; and 
 
2.    The  manner  in  which  data  concerning  pupils  may  be 
provided  to  a  person  when  the  provision  of  such  data  is  not 
expressly authorized by the board of trustees or governing body, as 
applicable. 
  Sec.  10.    NRS 218E.625 is hereby amended to read as follows: 
 
of  Educational 
Accountability and Program Evaluation is hereby created within the 
Fiscal  Analysis  Division.  The  Fiscal  Analysts  shall  appoint  to  the 
Legislative  Bureau  of  Educational  Accountability  and  Program 
Evaluation a Chief and such other personnel as the Fiscal Analysts 
determine  are  necessary  for  the  Bureau  to  carry  out  its  duties 
pursuant to this section. 
 
necessary or at the request of the Committee: 
 
(a)  Collect  and  analyze  data  and 
concerning: 
 
(1)  The  effectiveness  of  the  provisions  of  NRS  385.3455  to 
385.3891,  inclusive,  and  section  2  of  this  act  in  improving  the 
accountability of the schools of this State; 
 
(2)  The  statewide  program  to  reduce  the  ratio  of  pupils  per 
class per licensed teacher prescribed in NRS 388.700, 388.710 and 
388.720; 

2.    The  Bureau  shall,  as  the  Fiscal  Analysts  determine  is 

218E.625    1.    The  Legislative  Bureau 

issue  written 

reports 

 

 

 - 

 

 

 

 
 

– 7 – 

(4)  The  results  of 

the  examinations  of 

to  educate  persons  with 

(3)  The  statewide  program 

(5)  Any  program  or  legislative  measure,  the  purpose  of 

(1)  As the Fiscal Analysts determine are necessary; or 
(2)  At the request of the Legislature. 

 
 
 
 
disabilities that is set forth in chapter 395 of NRS; 
 
the  National 
Assessment of Educational Progress that are  administered pursuant 
to NRS 389.012; and 
 
which is to reform the system of education within this State. 
 
(b)  Conduct  studies  and  analyses  to  evaluate  the  performance 
and  progress  of  the  system  of  public  education  within  this  State. 
Such studies and analyses may be conducted: 
 
 
(cid:172)  This  paragraph  does  not  prohibit  the  Bureau  from  contracting 
with a person or entity to conduct studies and analyses on behalf of 
the Bureau. 
 
(c)  On or before October 1 of each even-numbered year, submit 
a written report of its findings pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) to 
the Director for transmission to the next regular session. The Bureau 
shall, on or before October 1 of each odd-numbered year, submit a 
written  report  of  its  findings  pursuant  to  paragraphs  (a)  and  (b)  to 
the Director for transmission to the Legislative Commission and to 
the Legislative Committee on Education. 
 
3.    The  Bureau  may,  pursuant  to  NRS  218F.620,  require  a 
school, a school district, the Nevada System of Higher Education or 
the Department of Education to submit to the Bureau books, papers, 
records  and  other  information  that  the  Chief  of  the  Bureau 
determines  are  necessary  to  carry  out  the  duties  of  the  Bureau 
pursuant  to  this  section.  An  entity  whom  the  Bureau  requests  to 
produce  records  or  other  information  shall  provide  the  records  or 
other  information  in  any  readily  available  format  specified  by  the 
Bureau. 
 
4.    Except  as  otherwise  provided  in  this  subsection  and  NRS 
239.0115,  any  information  obtained  by the  Bureau  pursuant  to  this 
section shall be deemed a work product that is confidential pursuant 
to  NRS  218F.150.  The  Bureau  may,  at  the  discretion  of  the  Chief 
and after submission to the Legislature or Legislative Commission, 
as appropriate, publish reports of its findings pursuant to paragraphs 
(a) and (b) of subsection 2. 
 
5.    This section does not prohibit the Department of Education 
or  the  State  Board  of  Education  from  conducting  analyses, 
submitting  reports  or  otherwise  reviewing  educational  programs  in 
this State. 

 - 

 
 
 
  Sec.  11.    The provisions of section 4 of this act do not apply to 
any  contract  entered  into  before  July  1,  2015,  until  extended  or 
renewed. 
  Sec.  12.    This act becomes effective on July 1, 2015. 

– 8 – 

 
20  ~~~~~  15 

 - 


