 

 

 

 

 
HOUSE BILL 1549  
By Dunn 
 

SENATE BILL 1835  

By  Gresham 

 

AN ACT to amend Tennessee Code Annotated, Title 49, 

relative to educational standards. 

 

WHEREAS, the federal government has no constitutional authority to set educational 

standards for Tennessee or to determine how children in Tennessee will be educated.  Any 

partnership with the federal government is solely at the discretion of the state; and  

WHEREAS, selection of educational standards for Tennessee public schools is the 

exclusive right of state and local education authorities; and 

WHEREAS, intrusive data tracking is an invasion of the rights of students and their 

families and any data collected should be used for the sole purpose of tracking the academic 

progress and needs of students by Tennessee education officials; now, therefore,   

BE IT ENACTED BY THE GENERAL ASSEMBLY OF THE STATE OF TENNESSEE: 

SECTION 1.  Tennessee Code Annotated, Title 49, Chapter 1, Part 3, is amended by 

adding the following language as a new, appropriately designated section: 

49-1-3__.   

 

 

(a)  No educational standards shall be imposed on the state by the federal 

government.  Any adoption of educational standards for the public schools of the state 

shall be done freely by the state board of education which, except as provided in 

subsections (b) and (c), may change, adjust or recede from a standard at any time. 

(b)  A proposed change or addition to an educational standard shall be posted for 

public review on the state board’s web site at least sixty (60) days before the state board 

meeting during which the adoption of the proposed action is to be considered.  The state 

board may vote on adoption of standards or proposed changes or additions only at a 

public meeting at which a quorum is in attendance.   

SB1835 
009154 
-1- 

 

 

(c)  After July 1, 2014, no educational standards shall be adopted by the state 

board until the education committees of the house of representatives and the senate 

have both conducted hearings on the standards. 

(d)  Data collected from the use of or testing under educational standards 

adopted by the state board shall be used for the sole purpose of tracking the academic 

progress and needs of students.  No personally identifiable data on students or their 

families’ religion, political party affiliation, voting history, biometric information or 

psychometric data shall be collected, tracked, housed with, reported to or shared with 

the federal government.  No student data shall be collected for the purpose of the 

development of commercial products or services or for political use or purposes. 

 

SECTION 2.  This act shall take effect July 1, 2014, the public welfare requiring it. 

SB1835 
009154 
-2- 


