Cisco Online Privacy Statement Summary

		 	

				

	



		 		

The Trust Center

Cisco is committed to maintaining strong protections for our customers, products and company. We believe in building and maintaining trust, reducing risk and simply doing what is right.

Learn more

				 	 	 		 	

The Cisco Online Privacy Statement and this summary apply to Cisco's websites and our affiliates' websites that link to the Statement.

Cisco respects and is committed to protecting your personal information. Our privacy statements reflect current global principles and standards on handling personal information – notice and choice of data use, data access and integrity, security, onward transfer and enforcement/oversight. Below are some of the highlights of our Online Privacy Statement.

Personal information

We collect personal information for a variety of reasons, such as processing your order, providing you with a newsletter subscription, sending marketing communications, personalizing your experience, or in connection with a job application.

We will inform you of the purpose for collecting personal information when we collect it from you and keep it to fulfill the purposes for which it was collected or as required by applicable laws or for legitimate purposes.

We may combine the information we collect from you with information obtained from other sources to help us improve its overall accuracy and completeness, and to help us better tailor our interactions with you.

We may also collect information relating to your use of our websites through the use of various technologies, including cookies.

Notice and your choices of data use

We will use your personal information for the purpose it was collected and will not use it for a different purpose without first asking for your permission.

We will ask your permission before we share your personal information with third parties for any purpose other than the reason you provided it or as otherwise stated in our Online Privacy Statement.

For information relating to your use of our websites, you may turn off cookies in your browser.

Data access and integrity

To update your personal information and communication preference, contact privacy@cisco.com or visit the specific product or service web site.

Data security

We are committed to protecting your personal information against unauthorized use or disclosure.

Onward transfer

As a global company, we may transfer your personal information to Cisco in the United States, to any Cisco subsidiary worldwide or to third parties acting on our behalf located outside of the country where the data is collected where data protection standards may be different.

We do not transfer your personal information to third parties unless those third parties promise to give the information the equivalent level of protection that we provide.

Important information

Our privacy and data protection policies and practices are designed to comply with applicable law and earn and maintain your trust in Cisco.

Cisco is certified under the EU-US and Swiss-US Privacy Shield frameworks as set forth by the U.S. Department of Commerce regarding the collection, use, processing, and cross-border transfer of personal data from the EU and Switzerland. 

Cisco is also certified under the APEC Cross Border Privacy Rules system regarding personal data handling and transfers to/from the APEC member economies. 

Cisco’s Binding Corporate Rules – Controller (BCR-C) provide that transfers made by Cisco worldwide of European personal information benefit from adequate safeguards.

If you have an unresolved privacy or data use concern that we have not addressed satisfactorily, please contact our U.S.-based third party dispute resolution provider (free of charge)

References

To find out more about our privacy practices, see the full version of the Cisco Online Privacy Statement.

Last updated: April 2018
