White Paper: Security

Web conference security 
We provide data security measures that address both passive and 
active attacks against confidentiality, integrity and availability  
when using GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining.

We built GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining with 
security in mind. For each solution, standards-based 
cryptography, a high-availability hosted service infrastructure and 
an intuitive user interface combine to maximize confidentiality, 
integrity and availability.

This document provides a technical description of the security 
features for GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining. We have 
written it for technical evaluators and security specialists who are 
responsible for ensuring the safety of their company’s network and 
the privacy and integrity of business communications. 

GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining are web 
conferencing tools that allow multiple PC, Mac, iOS, Android and 
Linux users to interact using screen sharing, video, text chat and 
other features. GoToMeeting is ideal for sales demos and 
collaborative online meetings. Built for larger audiences, 
GoToWebinar is great for marketing presentations and company 
events. And GoToTraining provides features specifically for web-
based training, such as online access to tests and materials and a 
hosted course catalog.

These products are hosted services, delivered via web browsers, 
downloadable client executables and a network of communication 
servers. Sessions are scheduled, convened and moderated using 
our website and client software. GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and 
GoToTraining automatically integrate with VoIP and phone 
conferencing for ease of use and solution completeness.

Business needs 
for secure 
collaboration

Easy-to-use online business collaboration tools like 
GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining can help 
companies increase productivity by enabling them to 

gotomeeting.comcommunicate and interact more effectively with co-workers, 
business partners and customers. But such tools vary greatly 
when it comes to embedded security features. Moreover, it is 
essential to understand the security implications of online 
collaboration and comply with safe usage guidelines.

Using any web conferencing solution requires careful 
consideration of potential threats and resulting business risks. 
Business security needs that must typically be addressed when 
adopting a web conferencing product include:

•

Preventing unauthorized use of the service and its features
so that only legitimate users can schedule online sessions

• Avoiding any compromise of company assets, including client

computers and the private networks to which they are
attached

•

•

•

Protecting the privacy and integrity of confidential
communication, including screen sharing, text messages,
video and audio interaction

Ensuring availability and reliability of the service itself, so that
business communications cannot be denied or disrupted

Integrating seamlessly with other network/computer security
measures, so that web conferencing services can leverage
(not degrade) an organization’s existing safeguards

Our web conferencing tools were developed from the ground up 
to satisfy these common business security needs. By 
incorporating security features and making them easy to 
administer and use, GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining 
enable effective and secure online business collaboration.

Role-based 
security features

To enable account owners to enforce company access policies 
related to service and feature use, every GoToMeeting, 
GoToWebinar and GoToTraining user is assigned one of several 
application-defined roles.

• Organizers (or trainers) are authorized to schedule meetings,
webinars and/or training sessions. An organizer sets up each
session, invites participants, initiates and ends the session
and designates the current presenter.

2

Web Conferencing SecurityWhite Papergotomeeting.com• Attendees are people invited to participate in sessions.

Attendees can view the presenter’s screen, chat with other
attendees or view the attendee list.

Presenters are attendees who can share their screen with
other attendees. On the desktop app, presenters can also
grant other attendees shared control of their keyboard and
mouse.

Internal administrators are LogMeIn staff members authorized
to manage GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining
services and accounts.

External administrators are individuals from a customer site
authorized to manage multi-user accounts. External
administrators can configure account features, authorize
organizers and access a variety of reporting tools.

The GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining user interfaces 
provide intuitive session controls and status indicators that 
facilitate productive and secure online sessions.

Controls and privileges available to each user depend on  
the currently assigned role: organizer, active presenter or 
general attendee.

Specific organizer privileges include:

The ability to invite attendees before or during the session

The ability to see the complete list of attendees and their
current roles and privileges, so the organizer always remains
aware of those present

The ability to start and end the session, which prevents
others from disrupting the session accidentally or otherwise

The ability to make any attendee the active presenter,
controlling which desktop can be viewed at any point in time
throughout the session

•

The ability to disallow the use of chat by one or more

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

Organizer 

privileges

Organizers (or trainers) have the most control in a session and the 
ability to grant and revoke various privileges for the other 
participants. 

3

Web Conferencing SecurityWhite Papergotomeeting.comWhite Papergotomeeting.comattendees, and permitting sidebar discussions only when 
appropriate

The ability to disconnect attendees

The ability to transfer the organizer role to another attendee 
(a privilege that cannot be revoked) so the session can 
continue if the organizer must leave early

The ability to lock meetings to prevent unexpected 
attendees

Presenter 

privileges

A presenter is the user actively sharing his or her desktop screen 
with other attendees. Only one attendee at a time within a 
session may be granted the active presenter role. Presenters have 
the following controls available to them:

The ability to enable, disable or pause sharing of multiple
screens or individual applications, which can be helpful to
avoid displaying confidential data that might otherwise
appear on the presenter’s desktop (e.g., while searching files
or folders)

The ability to grant/revoke remote keyboard and mouse
control, which facilitates efficient communication through
desktop interaction

The ability to make another attendee the presenter, providing
for a flexible, dynamic flow during sessions

Whenever a presenter is sharing his or her screen with other 
attendees, a screen-sharing indicator is displayed on the 
presenter’s control panel. To share his or her screen, the 
presenter must click the Screen button on the control panel. 
These features ensure that presenters always know when 
desktop sharing is active so that desktop screens are never 
shared accidentally.

Attendee 

privileges

Users with the basic attendee role have the following privileges:

The ability to join sessions held by organizers

The ability to view the presenter’s screen unless the
presenter has paused or disabled screen sharing

If granted, the ability to remotely control the presenter’s
keyboard and mouse (a privilege that is automatically revoked
whenever the active presenter role is changed)

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

•

The ability to use chat to send  messages to all other

4

Web Conferencing SecurityWhite Papergotomeeting.comWhite Papergotomeeting.comattendees or to one specific attendee (features that can be 
disabled by an organizer)

•

The ability to leave a session at any time

Basing access rights and privileges on assigned roles allows 
flexible sessions that facilitate highly dynamic interaction 
between attendees, without sacrificing either control or visibility. 
Organizers can easily add attendees or change the presenter as 
needed throughout the session. Presenters remain in complete 
control of their own desktops, and organizers have everything 
required to manage the session effectively.

Account & 
session 
authentication 
features

Role-based authorization depends upon the ability to identify 
and authenticate users. To ensure that organizers and attendees 
have the right privileges, we have incorporated account and 
session authentication features into GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar 
and GoToTraining.

Website 

account login

To access a user account on the GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and 
GoToTraining website, users must supply a valid email address 
and corresponding user account password. To make them hard 
to guess, all passwords must contain at least eight characters and 
include both letters and numbers. We also have a protection in 
place against brute-force login attacks.

We do not store user passwords in plaintext. Rather, we store 
passwords using a cryptographic hash function that is highly 
resilient to dictionary attacks. Furthermore, passwords are never 
transmitted in plaintext. We use transport layer security (TLS) 
protocols along with a password-authenticated key-agreement 
protocol for added security.

Authentication 
of session 
attendees

Because most organizations hold many sessions with restricted 
attendance, attendees need a unique meeting, webinar or 
training ID to join as well as an optional password if the 
organizer chooses.

Whenever an organizer schedules a session, a pseudorandom 
number generator is used to create the meeting, webinar or 
training ID, which is checked against transactional database 

5

Web Conferencing SecurityWhite Papergotomeeting.comtables to ensure it is not currently being used or has been used 
recently. The organizer can then share this ID with attendees 
using email, instant messaging or other communication methods.

To join the session, each attendee must provide the meeting, 
webinar or training ID by either clicking on a URL that contains 
the ID or by manually entering the value into a form presented by 
GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar or GoToTraining. When dialing in 
using a telephone, attendees must enter the ID on their keypad. 
If the ID is valid, each attendee is provided a session-unique role-
token that is then presented to the communication servers during 
the join process.

Administration 
site security

Like all connections to the GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and 
GoToTraining website, connections to the administration portal 
are protected using TLS. Administrative functions are protected 
using strong passwords, activity logging, regular audits and a 
variety of internal physical and network security controls.

Communication  
security features

Screen-sharing communication between participants in a 
GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar or GoToTraining session occurs via an 
overlay networking stack that logically sits on top of the 
conventional TCP/IP stack within each user’s PC. This network is 
realized by a collection of communications servers. 

Participants (session endpoints) communicate with 
infrastructure communication servers and gateways using 
outbound TCP/IP connections on ports 443 and 80 and UDP 
connections on ports 8200 and 1853. Because GoToMeeting, 
GoToWebinar and GoToTraining are hosted web-based services, 
participants can be located anywhere on the Internet – at a 
remote office, at home, at a business center or connected to 
another company’s network. Anytime, anywhere access to the 
GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining services provides 
maximum flexibility and connectivity. However, to preserve the 
confidentiality and integrity of private business communication, 
these tools also incorporate robust communication security 
features.

6

Web Conferencing SecurityWhite Papergotomeeting.comWeb 
conferencing 
service 
architecture 

Data 
confidentiality
and integrity

GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining provide data 
security measures that address both passive and active attacks 
against confidentiality, integrity and availability. Screen-sharing 
data, keyboard/mouse control data and text chat information, 
referred to as “session data,” have communication security 
controls with multiple layers of strong cryptography.

TCP layer 
security 

IETF-standard TLS protocols are used to protect outbound TCP 
connections between endpoints. To provide protection against 
eavesdropping, modification or replay attacks, the only non-
website connections we allow are those encrypted with AES. 
However, for maximum compatibility with nearly any web 
browser on any user’s desktop, the GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar 
and GoToTraining website supports in-bound connections using 
most supported TLS cipher suites as well.

For the customers’ own protection, we recommend that 
customers configure their browsers to use strong cryptography 
by default whenever possible and to always install the latest 

7

Web Conferencing SecurityWhite Papergotomeeting.comoperating system and browser security patches. We keep  
our servers up to date to support the latest and most secure 
cipher suites.

When TLS connections are established to the website and 
between GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar or GoToTraining 
components, our servers authenticate themselves to clients using 
DigiCert and Amazon public key certificates. For added protection 
against infrastructure attacks, mutual certificate-based 
authentication is used on servers that handle audio and video data. 
These strong authentication measures prevent would-be attackers 
from masquerading as infrastructure servers or inserting 
themselves into the middle of session communications.

Additional layer 
security

More features provide an additional layer of encryption for screen-
sharing data, keyboard/mouse control data, and text chat 
information, independent of those provided by TLS. Specifically, all 
session data is protected by encryption and integrity mechanisms 
that prevent anyone with access to our communications servers 
(whether friendly or hostile) from eavesdropping on a session or 
manipulating data without detection. 

Key establishment is accomplished by using a randomly generated 
128-bit seed value selected by the GoToMeeting service that is 
distributed to all endpoints over TLS and used as the input to a NIST-
approved key-derivation function. The seed value is erased from the 
GoToMeeting service memory when the session ends.

Session data is further protected from eavesdropping using 128-bit 
AES encryption in counter mode. Plaintext data is typically 
compressed before encryption using proprietary, high-performance 
techniques to optimize bandwidth. Data integrity protection is 
accomplished by including an integrity check value currently 
generated with the robust message authentication or HMAC-SHA-1 
and HMAC-SMA-2 depending on the protocol and GoToMeeting 
client used. Because of consequent use of robust cryptographic 
mechanisms, customers can have a high degree of confidence that 
session data is protected against unauthorized disclosure or 
undetected modification.

Furthermore, there is no additional cost, performance degradation or 
usability burden associated with these essential communication 
security features. High performance and standards-based data 
security is a built-in feature of every session.

Firewall and 
proxy 
compatibility

Like our other products, GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and 
GoToTraining include built-in proxy detection and connection 
management logic that helps automate software installation,

8

Web Conferencing SecurityWhite Papergotomeeting.comWhite Papergotomeeting.comavoid the need for complex network (re)configuration and 
maximize user productivity. Firewalls and proxies already present 
in your network generally do not need any special configuration 
to enable use of our web conferencing tools.

When the GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar or GoToTraining desktop 
endpoint software is started, it attempts to contact the endpoint 
gateway (EGW) by initiating one or more outbound TLS-
protected TCP connections on ports 443, 8200 and alternatively 
on port 80. Whichever connection responds first will be used 
and the others will be dropped. This connection provides the 
foundation for participating in all future sessions by enabling 
communication between hosted servers and the user’s desktop. 
For other endpoints, including mobile and web, REST calls are 
made directly to the web conferencing services.

When the user attempts to join a session, the endpoint  software 
establishes one or more additional connections to  
our communications servers, again using TLS-protected TCP 
connections. These connections carry data during an  
active session.

In addition, for network path prediction (NPP), the endpoint 
software periodically initiates one or more short-lived, out-of-
session TCP connections on ports 8200, 443 or 80 that are not 
TLS protected. These network probes take advantage of SYN/
ACK/FIN sequences to determine connectivity and round-trip 
times and do not contain any sensitive or exploitable information. 

By automatically adjusting the local network conditions using 
only outbound connections and choosing a port that is already 
open in most firewalls and proxies, GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar 
and GoToTraining provide a high degree of compatibility  
with existing network security measures. Unlike some other 
products, ours do not require companies to disable existing 
security measures to allow web conferencing communication. 
These features maximize both compatibility and overall 
network security.

We provide integrated audio conferencing for GoToMeeting, 
GoToWebinar and GoToTraining sessions through the telephone 
network (PSTN) as well as Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP). 
The PSTN already provides for the confidentiality and integrity of 
voice communications. To protect the confidentiality and 
integrity of VoIP connections from the endpoints to the voice 
servers, we use AES-128 in CTR and CBC mode. Keys are 
exchanged by the client and server over the already established 
TLS connection.

Audio security

9

Web Conferencing SecurityWhite Papergotomeeting.comVideo security

We provide integrated video conferencing for GoToMeeting, 
GoToWebinar and GoToTraining sessions over the Internet. To 
protect the confidentiality and integrity of video connections 
from the endpoints to the video servers, we use AES-128 in 
CTR mode. Keys are exchanged by the client and server over the 
already established TLS connection.

Webcast 
security

GoToWebinar webcasts use communications servers, broadcast 
gateways and a third-party content delivery network (Amazon 
CloudFront) to scalably deliver screen sharing, audio and video 
to attendees joining from a browser. The media is transmitted 
through the HTTP Live Streaming (HLS) protocol, while the 
broadcast gateways mix and transcode the data into multiple 
bitrates to enable adaptive delivery for clients with sub-optimal 
network connections. The gateways use RTP and HTTP to 
transport the output media streams to the CDN, which then 
delivers the streams to attendees over HTTPS. 

Endpoint system 
security features

Web conferencing software must work with a wide variety of 
desktop environments, yet create a secure endpoint on each 
user’s desktop. GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining 
accomplish this using web-downloadable executables that 
employ strong cryptographic measures.

Signed 
endpoint 
software

All our executables are digitally signed for integrity protection. 
Strict quality control, configuration management procedures and 
a Security Development Lifecycle (SDL) model are followed 
during development and deployment to ensure software safety. 
The endpoint software does not listen for inbound connections 
so that it cannot be used by malware or viruses to exploit or 
infect remote systems. This protects other desktops participating 
in a session from being infected by a compromised host used by 
another attendee.

Cryptographic 
subsystem 
implementatio

All cryptographic functions and security protocols employed by 
GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining client endpoint 
software are implemented using open source OpenSSL 
cryptographic libraries.

Use of the cryptographic libraries is restricted to the 
GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining endpoint 
applications; no external APIs are exposed for access by other 

10

Web Conferencing SecurityWhite Papergotomeeting.comsoftware running on that desktop. All encryption and integrity 
algorithms, key size and other cryptographic policy parameters 
are statically encoded when the application is compiled. Because 
there are no end-user-configurable cryptographic settings, it is 
impossible for users to weaken our security through accidental or 
intentional misconfiguration. A company that uses GoToMeeting, 
GoToWebinar and/or GoToTraining can be certain that the same 
level of web conferencing security is present on all participating 
endpoints, regardless of who owns or operates each desktop.

Hosted 
infrastructure 
security features

We deliver GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining using an 
application service provider (ASP) model designed expressly to 
ensure robust and secure operation while integrating seamlessly 
with a company’s existing network and security infrastructure.

Scalable and 
reliable 
infrastructure

Physical 

security

Network 
security

The service architecture has been designed for maximum 
performance, reliability and scalability. The GoToMeeting, 
GoToWebinar and GoToTraining solutions are driven by industry-
standard, high-capacity servers and network equipment with the 
latest security patches in place. Redundant switches and routers 
are built into the architecture to ensure that there is never one 
single point of failure. Clustered servers and backup systems help 
guarantee a seamless flow of application processes – even in the 
event of a heavy load or system failure. For optimal performance, 
GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining load balance the 
client/server sessions across geographically distributed 
communication servers.

Our web, application, communication and database servers are 
housed in secure co-location datacenters. Physical access to 
servers is tightly restricted and continuously monitored. All 
facilities have redundant power and environmental controls. 
When needed for improved performance, we also scale our 
services into trusted third-party cloud networks such as AWS.

We employ firewall, router and VPN-based access controls to 
secure our private-service networks and backend servers. 
Infrastructure security is continuously monitored and vulnerability 
testing is conducted regularly by internal staff and outside third-
party auditors.

11

Web Conferencing SecurityWhite Papergotomeeting.comContent Security

GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining allow organizers to 
record their live sessions, including  audio, video and screen 
content. When an organizer starts recording, every attendee  
is notified that the recording has begun, and a visual indicator 
appears on the control panel to reflect that recording is  
in progress.

Cloud recording

Recordings can be saved locally on the organizer’s computer or 
stored in their online account. If organizers choose to use our 
cloud recording option, there is no storage limit. We use a trusted 
third-party cloud network (AWS S3) for storage, and files are 
encrypted at rest using server-side encryption.

Transcripts

Organizers can easily share recordings with attendees after a 
session through unique, direct links, and attendees can view the 
recording playback from within their web browser. The share 
URLs do not expire; however, organizers can enable or disable 
sharing access at any time. The download and playback links are 
pre-signed URLs with a limited validity.

For a richer post-session experience, organizers can enable the 
option to generate transcripts, slides and other content from 
recordings. We use Google Cloud Speech-to-Text technology 
along with our in-house Voice AI tool to transcribe the session 
recordings, as requested by organizers,  and we adhere to a strict 
data sharing policy. The audio file is transferred using TLS to 
Google Cloud storage, where the file is encrypted at rest and 
deleted immediately after the processing is complete.

Content 
uploading

Some of our products provide capabilities for organizers to 
upload videos directly for their own use in live sessions. This 
uploaded content is also stored in AWS S3 with encryption 
enabled at rest as well as in transit.

Business 
messaging 
security

An extension of GoToMeeting, business messaging is a 
downloadable instant messaging application where GoToMeeting 
customers can see the status of team members, exchange text 
messages and share files.

Team 
definition

Team defines the scope for visibility and discoverability of various 
users. A team includes all users that are associated with your 
account, regardless of the type of GoToMeeting license. The 
account administrator is therefore also the team administrator.

Presence

Business messaging users can see the presence state of any 
other user within their team as soon as they are included in their 

12

Web Conferencing SecurityWhite Papergotomeeting.comcontact list. Presence updates are pushed over a TLS-secured 
channel to our chat and presence service (CaPS), which then 
pushes notifications to all subscribers.

Messages

Messages can be exchanged with all members of your team and, 
if explicitly included via an invite by email, with external users as 
well. External in this context means a business messaging user 
who is not a member of your team (e.g., customer, prospect  
or partner).

Messages are sent to CaPS via a TLS-secured channel and then 
pushed to all users in scope for that message. The scope for a 
message can be:

•  A one-to-one conversation:  Only the two participants of that 

A one-to-one conversation
conversation can see the message.

•  A private group:  Only members of that private group can see 
A private group:
the message. To become a member of a private group, an 
explicit invite from one of the group members is required.

•  A public group:  Every messaging user in your team can 

A public group:
discover and join a public group and thereby get access to 
messages in that group.

In addition to sending text messages, users can share arbitrary 
content within business messaging by uploading and 
downloading files. File are transferred through a TLS-secured 
channel and stored in private, secure cloud storage. The shared 
file is available for download for all users with the same scope as 
for text messages (see above). That means everyone who can 
read the shared message can also download the shared content. 
Content is made available through cryptographically signed URLs 
that link to the content.

Sharing content

Discoverability 
of contacts

A business messaging user can be found for one-to-one 
conversations, group invites or inclusion in a contact list only by 
people within your team.

Discoverability 
of groups

Groups can be found only if the group is public and within the 
same team. When a group gets created, the creator decides 
whether it will be public or private. This attribute of a group 
cannot be changed afterwards.

13

Web Conferencing SecurityWhite Papergotomeeting.comGoToStage 
security

An extension of GoToWebinar, GoToStage is an online portal where 
GoToWebinar organizers can create customizable Channels and 
publish their webinar recordings. We showcase published 
recordings on the GoToStage homepage, organized by business 
categories. At any point, organizers can unpublish their recordings, 
which removes the video from their Channel page and the 
GoToStage ecosystem.

Recording 
discoverability

Any video published to GoToStage is available for discovery on the 
GoToStage homepage and in search engine results. An organizer 
can control this and prevent discoverability through settings on his 
or her Channel page. In this case, the organizer’s videos will not be 
featured on the homepage, and search engines will no longer 
index the content. 

Viewing videos

Once an organizer publishes a recording to his or her Channel 
page, anyone with a direct link to the Channel or to the video’s 
unique Watch Now page can watch the recording. However, all 
visitors are first required to register for GoToStage before they can 
play videos. Visitors can sign up by providing their name and email 
or by connecting one of several social media accounts. Once 
registered, a signed S3 URL with a set TTL is used to playback the 
webinar recording. 

Organizer 
administration

Organizers can manage their Channels directly on the page itself 
with admin tools enabled based on their application-defined roles. 
Administrative functions are secured using strong passwords, and 
all connections in the GoToStage portal are protected using TLS.

Customer 
privacy

Because maintaining the trust of our users is a priority for us, we 
are committed to respecting your privacy. A copy of the current 
privacy policy can be found online at https://secure.logmein.com/
home/en/policies/privacy. 

Conclusion

With GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining, it’s easy to 
conduct meetings, present information and demonstrate products 
online to improve business communication. These tools’  
intuitive and secure interfaces and feature sets make them the 
most effective solutions for conducting and attending web 
conferencing sessions.

14

Web Conferencing SecurityWhite Papergotomeeting.comWeb Conferencing Security

Behind the scenes, our hosted service architecture transparently 
supports multi-point collaboration by providing a secure, reliable 
environment. As this paper shows, GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar 
and GoToTraining promote ease of use and flexibility without 
compromising the integrity, privacy or administrative control of 
business communication.

Appendix: 
Security 
standards 
compliance

GoToMeeting, GoToWebinar and GoToTraining are compliant with 
the following industry and U.S. government standards for 
cryptographic algorithms and security protocols:

•

The TLS Protocol, Version 1.2 IETF RFC 5246

• Advanced Encryption Standard (AES), FIPS 197

• AES Cipher suites for TLS, IETF RFC 5246

RSA, PKCS #1

SHA-2, FIPS PUB 180-4

• HMAC-SHA-2, IETF RFC 4868

•

•

•

Pseudorandom Number Generation, ANSI X9.62 and FIPS
140-2

©2020 LogMeIn, Inc. All rights reserved.   

  4.16.20/LMI0652/PDF     

15

White Papergotomeeting.comWhite Papergotomeeting.com
